Delivered weight (pounds) of dry, hulled, whole in-shell walnuts, excluding foreign material.
Pound.
A unit of weight equal to 16 ounces avoirdupois.
Production guarantee (per acre).
In addition to the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the number of pounds is dry, hulled, whole in-shell walnuts.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) Optional units may be established by:
(1) Organic and non-organic farming practices as provided in section 34(c)(3) of the Basic Provisions; or
(2) Non-contiguous land.
(b) Optional units by land location as provided in section 34(c)(1) of the Basic Provisions and by irrigation practice as provided in section 34(c)(2) of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the walnuts in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by variety or varietal group, in which case you may select one price election for each walnut variety or varietal group designated in the Special Provisions. The price elections you choose for each variety or varietal group must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each variety or varietal group. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for a specific variety or varietal group, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other varieties or varietal groups.
(b) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by variety or varietal group if applicable:
(1) Any damage, removal of trees, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees and the planting pattern;
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage is changed, the age of the crop that is interplanted with the walnuts, and type if applicable, and the planting pattern; and
(5) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(c) We will reduce the approved yield, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any circumstance listed in section 3(b) that may reduce your yields from previous levels. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your approved yield at any time we become aware of the circumstance. If the circumstance occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the circumstance was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss;
(2) After the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the approved yield is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Before or after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, an amount equal to the reduction in the approved yield will be added to the production to count calculated in section 11(c)(1)(ii) due to uninsured causes. We will reduce the approved yield for the subsequent crop year to reflect any reduction in the productive capacity of the trees or in the yield potential of the insured acreage.
(d) You may not increase your elected or assigned coverage level or the ratio of your price election to the maximum price election if a cause of loss that could or would reduce the yield of the insured crop has occurred prior to the time that you request the increase.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is October 31.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are January 31.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the commercially grown English Walnuts (excluding black walnuts) in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown on tree varieties that:
(1) Were commercially available when the trees were set out;
(2) Are adapted to the area; and
(3) Are grown on a root stock that is adapted to the area;
(c) That are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, are considered acceptable by us; and
(d) On acreage where at least 90 percent of the trees have reached at least the seventh leaf year, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, walnuts interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 8. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) Coverage begins on February 1 of each crop year except for the year of application, if your application is received after January 22 but prior to February 1, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 10-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements.
You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the orchard.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is November 15, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(3) Notwithstanding section 8(a)(1), for each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(4) If your walnut policy is canceled or terminated for any crop year, in accordance with the terms of the policy, after insurance attached for that crop year but on or before the cancellation and termination dates, whichever is later, insurance will not be considered to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.
(b) In addition to section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period. Acreage acquired after the acreage reporting date will not be insured.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of walnuts on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any damage or loss of production due to the inability to market the walnuts for any reason other than actual physical damage to the walnuts from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit:
(1) You must notify us prior to the beginning of harvest so that we may inspect the damaged production;
(2) You must give notice when knowledge is obtained of any mold damage or 15 days prior to harvest so that we may inspect the mold damaged production; and
(3) You must not sell or dispose of the damaged crop until we have given you written consent to do so.
(b) If you fail to meet the requirements of this section, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by the respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election for each variety or varietal group;
(3) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each variety or varietal group, if applicable, (see section 11(c)) by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result in section 11(b)(5) from the result in section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 11(b)(6) by your share.

# Example for Section 11(b)
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of walnuts in the unit, with a guarantee of 2,500 pounds per acre and a price election of $0.70 per pound. You are only able to harvest 200,000 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 2,500 pounds = 250,000-pound insurance guarantee;
(2) 250,000 pounds × $0.70 price election = $175,000 total value of insurance guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) 200,000 pounds production to count × $0.70 price election = $140,000 total value of production to count;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) $175,000 total value guarantee−$140,000 total value of production to count = $35,000 loss; and
(7) $35,000 × 100 percent share = $35,000 indemnity payment.
End of Example.
(c) The total production to count (whole in-shell pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(C) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(d) Mature walnut production damaged due to an insurable cause of loss which occurs within the insurance period may be adjusted by the quality adjustment factors contained in the Special Provisions.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 20091, Apr. 25, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65170, Dec. 10, 1997; 65 FR 47837, Aug. 4, 2000; 72 FR 10909, Mar. 12, 2007; 87 FR 64368, Oct. 25, 2022; 87 FR 76919, Dec. 16, 2022; 89 FR 53838, June 27, 2024]
§ 457.123
Almond crop insurance provisions.
The Almond Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Almond Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Almond Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Harvest.
The removal of mature almonds from the orchard.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Meat pounds.
The total pounds of almond meats (whole, chipped and broken, and in-shell meats). In-shell almonds will be converted to meat pounds in accordance with FCIC approved procedures.
Production guarantee (per acre).
In addition to the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the number of pounds is total meat pounds per acre of almonds.
Set out.
Transplanting the tree into the orchard.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) Optional units may be established by:
(1) Organic farming practices as provided in section 34(c)(3) of the Basic Provisions; or
(2) Non-contiguous land.
(b) Optional units by land location as provided in section 34(c)(1) of the Basic Provisions and by irrigation practice as provided in section 34(c)(2) of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the almonds in the county insured
under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each almond type designated in the Special Provisions. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type if applicable:
(1) Any damage, removal of trees, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees and the planting patterns;
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and anytime the planting pattern of such acreage is changed, the age of the crop that is interplanted with the almonds, and type if applicable, and the planting pattern; and
(5) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(c) We will reduce the approved yield, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any circumstance listed in section 3(b) that may reduce your yields from previous levels. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your approved yield at any time we become aware of the circumstance. If the circumstance occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the circumstance was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss;
(2) After the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the approved yield is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Before or after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, an amount equal to the reduction in the approved yield will be added to the production to count calculated in section 11(c)(1)(ii) due to uninsured causes. We will reduce your approved yield for the subsequent crop year to reflect any reduction in the productive capacity of the trees or in the yield potential of the insured acreage.
(d) You may not increase your elected or assigned coverage level or the ratio of your price election to the maximum price election if a cause of loss that would or could reduce the yield of the insured crop has occurred prior to the time that you request the increase.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are December 31.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the almonds in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share unless allowed otherwise by section 8(b);
(b) That are grown for harvest as almonds;
(c) That are irrigated;
(d) That are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable to us; and
(e) On acreage where at least 90 percent of the trees have reached at least the 5th leaf year after being set out, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, almonds interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 8. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) Coverage begins on January 1 of each crop year, except that for the year of application, if your application is received after December 21, but prior to January 1, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office unless we inspect the acreage during the 10 day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the orchard.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is November 30.
(3) Notwithstanding section 8(a)(1), for each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year.
Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(4) If your almond policy is canceled or terminated for any crop year, in accordance with the terms of the policy, after insurance attached for that crop year but on or before the cancellation and termination dates whichever is later, insurance will not be considered to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.
(b) In addition to section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period. Acreage acquired after the acreage reporting date will not be insured.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of almonds on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Volcanic eruption;
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period; or
(8) Wildlife, unless control measures have not been taken.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to the inability to market the almonds for any reason other than actual physical damage to the almonds from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must notify us prior to the beginning of harvest so that we may inspect the damaged production. You must not sell or dispose of the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so. If you fail to meet the requirements of this section, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(l) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election for the type;
(3) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each type, if applicable, (see subsection 11(c)) by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result in section 11(b)(5) from the result in section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 11(b)(6) by your share.

# Example for Section 11(b)
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of almonds in the unit, with a guarantee of 1,200 pounds per acre and a price election of $1.30 per pound. You are only able to harvest 100,000 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 1,200 pounds = 120,000 pound insurance guarantee;
(2) 120,000 pounds × $1.30 price election = $156,000 total value of insurance guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) 100,000 pounds production to count × $1.30 price election = $130,000 total value of production to count;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) $156,000 total of value guarantee−$130,000 total value of production to count = $26,000 loss; and
(7) $26,000 × 100 percent share = $26,000 indemnity payment.
End of Example.
(c) The total production to count, specified in meat pounds, from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(C) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested meat pounds, including meat pounds damaged due to uninsured causes of loss.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 25108, May 8, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65170, Dec. 10, 1997; 65 FR 47838, Aug. 4, 2000; 72 FR 10909, Mar. 12, 2007; 89 FR 53839, June 27, 2024]
§ 457.124
Raisin crop insurance provisions.
The raisin crop insurance provisions for the 1998 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies

# Raisin Crop Provisions
If a conflict exists among the policy provisions, the order of priority is as follows: (1) The Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, if applicable; (2) the Special Provisions; (3) these Crop Provisions; and (4) the Basic Provisions with (1) controlling (2), etc.

# 1. Definitions
Crop year.
In lieu of the definition of “Crop year” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the calendar year in which the raisins are placed on trays for drying.
Delivered ton.
A ton of raisins delivered to a packer, processor, buyer or a reconditioner, before any adjustment for U. S. Grade B and better maturity standards, and after adjustments for moisture over 16 percent and substandard raisins over 5 percent.
RAC.
The Raisin Administrative Committee, which operates under an order of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Raisins.
The sun-dried fruit of varieties of grapes designated insurable by the actuarial documents. These grapes will be considered raisins for the purpose of this policy when laid on trays in the vineyard to dry.
Reference maximum dollar amount.
The value per ton established by FCIC and shown in the actuarial documents.
Substandard.
Raisins that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C, or layer (cluster) raisins with seeds that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade B.
Table grapes.
Grapes grown for commercial sale as fresh fruit on acreage where appropriate cultural practices were followed.
Ton.
Two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.
Tonnage report.
A report used to annually report, by unit, all the tons of raisins produced in the county in which you have a share.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will be divided into additional basic units by grape variety.
(b) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm serial number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable. Optional units may be established only if each optional unit is located on non-contiguous land, unless otherwise allowed by written agreement.

# 3. Amounts of Insurance and Production Reporting
In addition to the requirements of section 3 (Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(a) You may select only one coverage level percentage for all the raisins in the county insured under this policy.
(b) The amount of insurance for the unit will be determined by multiplying the insured tonnage by the reference maximum dollar amount, by the coverage level percentage you elect, and by your share.
(c) Insured tonnage is determined as follows:
(1) For units not damaged by rain—The delivered tons; or
(2) For units damaged by rain—By adding the delivered tons to any verified loss of production due to rain damage. When production from a portion of the acreage within a unit is removed from the vineyard and production from the remaining acreage is lost in the vineyard, the amount of production lost in the vineyard will be determined based on the number of tons of raisins produced on the acreage from which production was removed. When no production has been removed from the vineyard, the amount of production lost in the vineyard will be determined based on an appraisal.
(3) Insured tonnage will be adjusted as follows:
(i) The insured tonnage will be reduced 0.12 percent for each 0.10 percent of moisture in excess of 16.0 percent. For example, 10.0 tons of raisins containing 18.0 percent moisture will be reduced to 9.760 tons of raisins;
(ii) Insured tonnage used for dry edible fruit will be reduced by 0.10 percent for each 0.10 percent of substandard raisins in excess of 5.0 percent; and
(iii) When raisins contain moisture in excess of 24.3 percent at the time of delivery and are released for a use other than dry edible fruit (e.g. distillery material), they will be considered to contain 24.3 percent moisture.
(4) If any raisins are delivered, the moisture content will be determined at the time of delivery.
(d) Section 3(c) of the Basic Provisions is not applicable to this crop.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 (Contract Changes) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the contract change date is April 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 (Life of Policy, Cancellation and Termination) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are July 31.

# 6. Acreage Report and Tonnage Report
In lieu of the provisions contained in section 6 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(a) You must report by unit, and on our form, the acreage on which you intend to produce raisins for the crop year. This acreage report must be submitted to us on or before the sales closing date, and contain the following information:
(1) All acreage of the crop (insurable and not insurable) in which you will have a share;
(2) Your anticipated share at the time coverage will begin;
(3) The variety; and
(4) The location of each vineyard.
(b) Acreage of the crop acquired after the acreage was reported, may be included on the acreage report if we agree to accept the additional acreage. Such additional acreage will not be added to the acreage report after you first place raisins from the additional acreage on trays for drying. Failure to report any acreage in which you have a share will result in denial of liability. If you elect not to produce raisins on any part of the acreage included on your acreage report, you must notify us in writing on or before September 21, and provide any records we may require to verify that raisins were not produced on that acreage.
(c) If you fail to file an acreage report in a timely manner, or if the information reported is incorrect, we may deny liability on any unit.
(d) In addition to the acreage report, you must annually submit a tonnage report, on our form, which includes by unit the number of delivered tons of raisins, and, if damage has occurred, the amount of any tonnage we determined was lost due to rain damage in the vineyard for each unit designated in the acreage report.
(e) The tonnage report must be submitted to us as soon as the information is available, but not later than March 1 of the year following the crop year. Indemnities may be determined on the basis of information you submitted on this report. If you do not submit this report by the reporting date, we may, at our option, either determine the insured tonnage and share by unit or we may deny liability on any unit. This report may be revised only upon our approval. Errors in reporting units may be corrected by us at any time we discover the error.

# 7. Annual Premium
In lieu of the premium computation method contained in section 7 (Annual Premium) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the annual premium amount is determined by multiplying the amount of insurance for the unit at the time insurance attaches by the premium rate and then multiplying that result by any applicable premium adjustment factors that may apply.

# 8. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 (Insured Crop) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the
crop insured will be all the raisins in the county of grape varieties for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents and in which you have a share.
(b) In addition to the raisins not insurable under section 8 (Insured Crop) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we do not insure any raisins:
(1) Laid on trays after September 8 in vineyards with north-south rows in Merced or Stanislaus Counties, or after September 20 in all other counties;
(2) From table grape strippings; or
(3) From vines that received manual, mechanical, or chemical treatment to produce table grape sizing.

# 9. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions of section 11 (Insurance Period) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance attaches on each unit at the time the raisins are placed on trays for drying and ends the earlier of:
(a) October 20;
(b) The date the raisins are removed from the trays;
(c) The date the raisins are removed from the vineyard;
(d) Total destruction of all raisins on a unit;
(e) Final adjustment of a loss on a unit; or
(f) Abandonment of the raisins.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against unavoidable loss of production resulting from rain that occurs during the insurance period and while the raisins are on trays or in rolls in the vineyard for drying.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to inability to market the raisins for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of a person to accept production.

# 11. Reconditioning Requirements and Payment
(a) We may require you to recondition a representative sample of not more than 10 tons of damaged raisins to determine if they meet standards established by the RAC once reconditioned. If such standards are met, we may require you to recondition all the damaged production. If we determine that it is possible to recondition any damaged production and, if you do not do so, we will value the damaged production at the reference maximum dollar amount, except if your damaged production undergoes a USDA inspection and is stored by your packer with other producer's production to be reconditioned at a later date. If we agree, in writing, that it is not practical to recondition the damaged production, we will determine the number of tons meeting RAC standards that could be obtained if the production were reconditioned.
(b) If the representative sample of raisins that we require you to recondition does not meet RAC standards for marketable raisins after reconditioning, the reconditioning payment will be the actual cost you incur to recondition the sample, not to exceed an amount that is reasonable and customary for such reconditioning, regardless of the coverage level selected.
(c) A reconditioning payment, based on the actual (unadjusted) weight of the raisins, will be made if:
(1) Insured raisin production:
(i) Is damaged by rain within the insurance period;
(ii) Is reconditioned by washing with water and then drying;
(iii) Is insured at a coverage level greater than that applicable to the catastrophic risk protection plan of insurance; and either
(2) The damaged production undergoes an inspection by USDA and is found to contain mold, embedded sand, or other rain-caused contamination determined by micro-analysis in excess of standards established by the RAC, or is found to contain moisture in excess of 18 percent; or
(3) We give you consent to recondition the damaged production.
(d) Your request for consent to any wash-and-dry reconditioning must identify the acreage on which the production to be reconditioned was damaged in order to be eligible for a reconditioning payment.
(e) The reconditioning payment for raisins that meet RAC standards for marketable raisins after reconditioning will be the lesser of your actual cost for reconditioning or the amount determined by:
(1) Multiplying the greater of $125.00 or the reconditioning dollar amount per ton contained in the Special Provisions by your coverage level;
(2) Multiplying the result of section 11(e)(1) by the actual number of tons of raisins (unadjusted weight) that are wash-and-dry reconditioned; and
(3) Multiplying the result of section 11(e)(2) by your share.
(f) Only one reconditioning payment will be made for any lot of raisins damaged during the crop year. Multiple reconditioning payments for the same production will not be made.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 14 (Duties in the Event of Damage or
Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the following will apply:
(1) If you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must give us notice within 72 hours of the time the rain fell on the raisins. We may reject any claim for indemnity if such notice is later. You must provide us the following information when you give us this notice:
(i) The grape variety;
(ii) The location of the vineyard and number of acres; and
(iii) The number of vines from which the raisins were harvested.
(2) We will not pay any indemnity unless you:
(i) Authorize us in writing to obtain all relevant records from any raisin packer, raisin reconditioner, the RAC, or any other person who may have such records. If you fail to meet the requirements of this subsection, all insured production will be considered undamaged and valued at the reference maximum dollar value.
(ii) Upon our request, provide us with records of previous years' production and acreage. This information may be used to establish the amount of insured tonnage when insurable damage results in discarded production.
(b) In lieu of the provisions in section 14 (Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8) that require you to submit a claim for indemnity not later than 60 days after the end of the insurance period, any claim for indemnity must be submitted to us not later than March 31 following the date for the end of the insurance period.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the acreage from which raisins were removed for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured tonnage of raisins by the reference maximum dollar amount and your coverage level percentage;
(2) Subtracting from the total in section 13(b)(1) the total value of all insured damaged and undamaged raisins; and
(3) Multiplying the result of section 13(b)(2) by your share.
(c) For the purpose of determining the amount of indemnity, your share will not exceed the lesser of your share at the time insurance attaches or at the time of loss.
(d) Undamaged raisins or raisins damaged solely by uninsured causes will be valued at the reference maximum dollar amount.
(e) Raisins damaged partially by rain and partially by uninsured causes will be valued at the highest prices obtainable, adjusted for any reduction in value due to uninsured causes.
(f) Raisins that are damaged by rain, but that are reconditioned and meet RAC standards for raisins, will be valued at the reference maximum dollar amount.
(g) The value to count for any raisins produced on the unit that are damaged by rain and not removed from the vineyard will be the larger of the appraised salvage value or $35.00 per ton, except that any raisins that are damaged and discarded from trays or are lost from trays scattered in the vineyard as part of normal handling will not be considered to have any value. You must box and deliver any raisins that can be removed from the vineyard.
(h) At our sole option, we may acquire all the rights and title to your share of any raisins damaged by rain. In such event, the raisins will be valued at zero in determining the amount of loss and we will have the right of ingress and egress to the extent necessary to take possession, care for, and remove such raisins.
(i) Raisins destroyed, put to another use without our consent, or abandoned will be valued at the reference maximum dollar amount.

# 14. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 12070, Mar. 14, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65170, Dec. 10, 1997]
§ 457.125
Safflower crop insurance provisions.
The Safflower Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2017 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Safflower Crop Insurance Provisions
If a conflict exists among the policy provisions, the order of priority is as follows: (1) The Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, if applicable; (2) the Special Provisions; (3) these Crop Provisions; and (4) the Basic Provisions with (1) controlling (2), etc.

# 1. Definitions
Harvest.
Collecting the safflower seed by combining or threshing.
Local market price.
The cash price per pound for undamaged safflower (test weight of 35 pounds per bushel or higher and seed damage less than 25 percent) offered by buyers.
Nurse crop (companion crop).
A crop planted into the same acreage as another crop, that is intended to be harvested separately, and which is planted to improve growing conditions for the crop with which it is grown.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, safflowers must initially be planted in rows, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Pound.
Sixteen ounces avoirdupois.
Value per pound.
The cash price per pound for damaged safflower (test weight below 35 pounds per bushel, seed damage in excess of 25 percent, or both).

# 2. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 (Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), you may select only one price election for all the safflower in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each safflower type designated in the Special Provisions. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.

# 3. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 (Contract Changes) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date for California, and December 31 preceding the cancellation date for all other states.

# 4. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 (Life of Policy, Cancellation, and Termination) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are:
State
Cancellation and termination dates
California
December 31.
All other states
March 15.

# 5. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 (Insured Crop) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the crop insured will be all safflower in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That is planted for harvest as safflower seed;
(c) That is not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(1) Interplanted with another crop; or
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume.

# 6. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 (Insurable Acreage) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure:
(a) Safflower planted on land on which safflower, sunflower seed, any variety of dry beans, soybeans, mustard, rapeseed, or lentils were grown the preceding crop year, unless other rotation requirements are specified in the Special Provisions or we agree in writing to insure such acreage; or
(b) Any acreage of safflower damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, unless the crop is replanted or we agree that it is not practical to replant.

# 7. Insurance Period
In accordance with the provisions of section 11 (Insurance Period) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is October 31 immediately following planting.

# 8. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife, unless proper measures to control wildlife have not been taken;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; or
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period.

# 9. Replanting Payment
(a) In accordance with section 13 (Replanting Payment) of the Basic Provisions
(§ 457.8), a replanting payment is allowed if the crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 20 percent of the production guarantee or 160 pounds, multiplied by your price election, multiplied by your insured share.
(c) When safflower is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable as an original planting, the liability on the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In accordance with the requirements of section 14 (Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the representative samples of the unharvested crop must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election;
(3) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each type if applicable, (see section 11(c)) by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the results from the total in section 11(b)(5) from the results in section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 11(b)(6) by your share.
(c) The total production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for the acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 11(d)); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(d) Mature safflower may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. If moisture adjustment is applicable, it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality.
(1) Production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of 8 percent. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if such production:
(i) Has a test weight below 35 pounds per bushel;
(ii) Has seed damage in excess of 25 percent; or
(iii) Contains substances or conditions that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health.
(3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss only if:
(i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these crop
provisions and that occurred within the insurance period;
(ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions result in a value per pound that is less than the local market price;
(iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions are made using samples of the production obtained by us or by a disinterested third party approved by us;
(iv) With regard to deficiencies in quality (except test weight, which may be determined by our loss adjuster), the samples are analyzed by:
(A) A grader licensed under the United States Agricultural Marketing Act or the United States Warehouse Act;
(B) A grader licensed under State law and employed by a warehouse operator who has a storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation; or
(C) A grader not licensed under State law, but who is employed by a warehouse operator who has a commodity storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation and is in compliance with State law regarding warehouses; and
(v) With regard to substances or conditions injurious to human or animal health, the samples are analyzed by a laboratory approved by us.
(4) Safflower production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in sections 11(d) (2) and (3), will be reduced as follows:
(i) In accordance with the quality adjustment factors contained in the Special Provisions; or
(ii) If quality adjustment factors are not contained in the Special Provisions:
(A) By determining the value per pound and the local market price on the earlier of the date such quality adjusted production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit. Discounts used to establish the value per pound will be limited to those which are usual, customary, and reasonable. The value per pound will not be reduced for:
(
1
) Moisture content;
(
2
) Damage due to uninsured causes; or
(
3
) Drying, handling, processing, or any other costs associated with normal harvesting, handling, and marketing of safflower. We may obtain values per pound from any buyer of our choice. If we obtain values per pound from one or more buyers located outside your local market area, we will reduce such values per pound by the additional costs required to deliver the production to those buyers.
(B) Divide the value per pound by the local market price to determine the quality adjustment factor; and
(C) Multiply the adjustment factor by the number of pounds of the damaged production remaining after any reduction due to excessive moisture to determine the net production to count.
(e) Any production harvested from other plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on a weight basis.

# 12. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 42649, Aug. 8, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65171, Dec. 10, 1997; 67 FR 55690, Aug. 30, 2002; 81 FR 84399, Nov. 23, 2016]
§ 457.126
Popcorn crop insurance provisions.
The Popcorn Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2017 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Popcorn Crop Insurance Provisions
If a conflict exists among the policy provisions, the order of priority is as follows: (1) The Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, if applicable; (2) the Special Provisions; (3) these Crop Provisions; and (4) the Basic Provisions with (1) controlling (2), etc.

# 1. Definitions
Base contract price.
The price stipulated on the contract executed between you and the processor before any adjustments for quality.
Harvest.
Removing the grain or ear from the stalk either by hand or by machine.
Merchantable popcorn.
Popcorn that meets the provisions of the processor contract.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, popcorn must initially be planted in rows far enough apart to permit mechanical cultivation, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Pound.
Sixteen (16) ounces avoirdupois.
Practical to replant.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, it will not be considered practical to replant unless production from the replanted acreage
can be delivered under the terms of the popcorn processor contract, or the processor agrees in writing that it will accept the production from the replanted acreage.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in processing popcorn that possesses all licenses, permits or approved inspections for processing popcorn required by the state in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process the contracted popcorn within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
A written agreement between the producer and a processor, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow popcorn, and to deliver the popcorn production to the processor;
(b) The processor's commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processor contract;
(c) A date, if specified on the processor's contract, by which the crop must be harvested to be accepted; and
(d) A base contract price.
Multiple contracts with the same processor, each of which stipulates a specific amount of production to be delivered under the terms of the processor contact, will be considered as a single processor contract.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) For processor contracts that stipulate the amount of production to be delivered:
(1) In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, a basic unit will consist of all the acreage planted to the insured crop in the county that will be used to fulfill contracts with each processor;
(i) There will be no more than one basic unit for all production contracted with each processor contract;
(ii) In accordance with section 13 of these Crop Provisions, all production from any basic unit in excess of the amount under contract will be included as production to count if such production is applied to any other basic unit for which the contracted amount has not been fulfilled; and
(2) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm serial number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable.
(b) For any processor contract that stipulates only the number of acres to be planted, the provisions contained in section 34 of the Basic Provisions will apply.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one price election for all the popcorn in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each popcorn type designated in the Special Provisions. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State and county
Cancellation and termination dates
Val Verde, Edwards, Kerr, Kendall, Bexar, Wilson, Karnes, Goliad, Victoria, and Jackson counties Texas, and all Texas counties lying south thereof
January 15.
All other Texas counties and all other states
March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of all processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the popcorn in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That is planted for harvest as popcorn;
(3) That is grown under, and in accordance with the requirements of, a processor contract executed on or before the acreage reporting date and is not excluded from the processor contract at any time during the crop year; and
(4) That is not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Interplanted with another crop; or
(ii) Planted into an established grass or legume.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the processor contract, you retain control of the acreage on which the popcorn is grown, you have a risk of loss, and the processor contract provides for delivery of popcorn under specified conditions and at a stipulated base contract price.
(c) A popcorn producer who is also a processor may be able to establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) The Board of Directors or officers of the processor must, prior to the sales closing date, execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as an acceptable processor contract. Such resolution will be considered a processor contract under this policy; and
(3) Our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of a processor contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions, any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.

# 9. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions contained in section 11 of the Basic Provisions, regarding the end of the insurance period, insurance ceases on each unit or part of a unit at the earliest of:
(a) The date the popcorn:
(1) Was destroyed;
(2) Should have been harvested but was not harvested;
(3) Was abandoned; or
(4) Was harvested;
(b) When the processor contract stipulates a specific amount of production to be delivered, the date the production accepted by the processor equals the contracted amount of production;
(c) Final adjustment of a loss; or
(d) December 10 immediately following planting.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by a cause of loss specified in sections 10(a)(1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded by section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we do not insure against any loss of production due to:
(1) Damage resulting from frost or freeze after the date designated in the Special Provisions; or
(2) Failure to follow the requirements contained in the processor contract.

# 11. Replanting Payment
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if the crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 20 percent of the production guarantee or 150 pounds, multiplied by your price election, multiplied by your insured share.
(c) When popcorn is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable as an original planting, our liability for the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the representative samples of the unharvested crop must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type, if applicable, by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying the result of section 13(b)(1) by the respective price election for each type, if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(2) if there is more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the total production to count (see section 13(c)), of each type if applicable, by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(4) if there is more than one type;
(6) Subtracting the result of section 13(b)(4) from the result in section 13(b)(2) if there is only one type or subtracting the result of section 13(b)(5) from the result of section 13(b)(3) if there is more than one type; and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 13(b)(6) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of Type A popcorn in the unit, with a guarantee of 2,500 pounds per acre and a price election of $.12 per pound. You are only able to harvest 150,000 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
1
100 acres × 2,500 pounds = 250,000 pound guarantee;
2
250,00 pounds × $.12 price election = $30,000 value of guarantee;
4
150,000 pounds production to count × $.12 price election = $18,000 value of production to count;
6
$30,000−$18,000 = $12,000 loss; and
7
$12,000 × 100 percent share = $12,000 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 150 acres of type B popcorn in the same unit, with a guarantee of 2,250 pounds per acre and a price election of $.10 per pound. You are only able to harvest 70,000 pounds. Your total indemnity for both popcorn types A and B would be calculated as follows:
1
100 acres × 2,500 pounds = 250,000 guarantee for type A and 150 acres × 2,250 pounds = 337,500 pound guarantee for type B;
2
250,000 pound guarantee × $.12 price election = $30,000 value of guarantee for type A and 337,500 pound guarantee × $.10 price election = $33,750 value guarantee for type B;
3
$30,000 + $33,750 = $63,750 total value guarantee;
4
150,000 pounds × $.12 price election = $18,000 value of production to count for type A and
70,000 pounds × $.10 price election = $7,000 value of production to count for type B;
5
$18,000 + $7,000 = $25,000 total value of production to count;
6
$63,750−$25,000 = $38,750 loss; and
7
$38,750 × 100 percent = $38,750 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) Damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records;
(ii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 13(d));
(iii) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested;
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage in the unit;
(3) All harvested and appraised production lost or damaged by uninsured causes; and
(4) For processor contracts that stipulate the amount of production to be delivered, all harvested popcorn production from any other insurable unit that has been used to fulfill your processor contract applicable to this unit.
(5) Any production from yellow or white dent corn will be counted as popcorn on a weight basis and any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may
be counted as popcorn production on a weight basis.
(6) Any ear production for which we cannot determine a shelling factor will be considered to have an 80 percent shelling factor.
(d) Mature popcorn may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. If moisture adjustment is applicable, it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality.
(1) Production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point for moisture in excess of 15 percent. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Popcorn production will be eligible for quality adjustment if, due to an insurable cause of loss that occurs within the insurance period, it is not merchantable popcorn and is rejected by the processor. The production will be adjusted by:
(i) Dividing the value per pound of the damaged popcorn by the base contract price per pound for undamaged popcorn; and
(ii) Multiplying the result by the number of pounds of such popcorn.

# 14. Late Planting
Late planting provisions in the Basic Provisions are applicable for popcorn if you provide written approval from the processor by the acreage reporting date that it will accept the production from the late planted acres when it is expected to be ready for harvest.

# 15. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[63 FR 33838, June 22, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 84399, Nov. 23, 2016]
§ 457.127
[Reserved]
§ 457.128
Guaranteed production plan of fresh market tomato crop insurance provisions.
The Guaranteed Production Plan of Fresh Market Tomato Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Guaranteed Production Plan of Fresh Market Tomato Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Acre.
Forty-three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet of land when row widths do not exceed six feet, or if row widths exceed six feet, the land area on which at least 7,260 linear feet of rows are planted.
Carton.
A container that contains 25 pounds of fresh tomatoes unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions.
First fruit set.
The date when 30 percent of the plants on the unit have produced fruit that has reached a minimum size of one inch in diameter.
Harvest.
Picking of marketable tomatoes.
Mature green tomato.
A tomato that:
(a) Has a heightened gloss due to a waxy skin that cannot be torn by scraping;
(b) Has a well-formed jelly-like substance in the locules;
(c) Has seeds that are sufficiently hard so they are pushed aside and not cut by a sharp knife in slicing; and
(d) Shows no red color.
Planting.
Transplanting the tomato plants into the field.
Planting period.
The time period designated in the Special Provisions during which the tomatoes must be planted to be insured as either spring-or fall-planted tomatoes.
Plant stand.
The number of live plants per acre before any damage occurs.
Potential production.
The number of cartons per acre of mature green or ripe tomatoes that the tomato plants would have produced by the end of the insurance period:
(a) With a classification size of 6 × 7 (2-8/32 inch minimum diameter) or larger for all types except cherry, roma, or plum; or
(b) Meeting the criteria specified in the Special Provisions for cherry, roma, or plum types.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition of “Practical to replant” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors, including but not limited to moisture availability, condition of the field, time to crop maturity, and marketing windows that replanting the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. In counties that do not have both spring and fall planting periods, it
will not be considered practical to replant after the final planting date unless replanting is generally occurring in the area. In counties that have spring and fall planting periods, it will not be considered practical to replant after the final planting date for the planting period in which the crop was initially planted.
Ripe tomato.
A tomato that meets the definition of a mature green tomato, except the tomato shows some red color and can still be packed for fresh market under the agreement or contract with the packer.
Row width.
The distance in feet from the center of one row of plants to the center of an adjacent row.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will be divided into additional basic units by planting period, if separate planting periods are provided for in the Special Provisions.
(b) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(a) You may select only one price election for all the tomatoes in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each tomato type designated in the actuarial documents. The price election you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) The production guarantees per acre are progressive by stages and increase at specified intervals to the final stage production guarantee. The stages and production guarantees are as follows:
(1) For California:
Stage
Percent of stage 3 (final stage) production guarantee
Length of time
1
50
From planting until first fruit set.
2
70
From first fruit set until harvested.
3
100
Harvested acreage.
(2) For all other states, except California:
Stage
Percent of stage 4 (final stage) production guarantee
Length of time
1
50
From planting until qualifying for stage 2.
2
75
From the earlier of stakes driven, one tie and pruning, or 30 days after planting until qualifying for stage 3.
3
90
From the earlier of the end of stage 2 or 60 days after planting until qualifying for stage 4.
4
100
From the earlier of 75 days after planting or the beginning of harvest.
(c) Any acreage of tomatoes damaged to the extent that producers in the area generally would not further care for the tomatoes will be deemed to have been destroyed even though you continue to care for the tomatoes. The production guarantee for such acreage will be the guarantee for the stage in which such damage occurs.
(d) Any production guarantees for cherry, roma, or plum type tomatoes will be specified in the Special Provisions.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the contract change date is September 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a January 31 cancellation date and December 31 preceding the cancellation date for all other counties.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are:
Cancellation and Termination
State
Dates
California, Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina
January 31.
All other states
March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
(a) In addition to the provisions of section 6 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), you must report the row width.
(b) If spring and fall planting periods are allowed in the Special Provisions you must report all the information required by section 6 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8) and these Crop Provisions by the acreage reporting date for each planting period.

# 7. Annual Premium
In lieu of provisions contained in the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), for determining premium amounts, the annual premium is determined by multiplying the final stage production
guarantee by the price election, by the premium rate, by the insured acreage, by your share at the time coverage begins, and by any applicable premium adjustment factor contained in the Special Provisions.

# 8. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the crop insured will be all the tomatoes in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are transplanted tomatoes that have been planted for harvest as fresh market tomatoes;
(c) That are planted within the spring or fall planting periods, as applicable, specified in the Special Provisions;
(d) That, on or before the acreage reporting date, are subject to any agreement in writing (packing contract) executed between you and a packer, whereby the packer agrees to accept and pack the production specified in the agreement, unless you control a packing facility or an exception exists in the Special Provisions; and
(e) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions):
(1) Grown for direct marketing;
(2) Interplanted with another crop;
(3) Planted into an established grass or legume; or
(4) Cherry, roma, or plum type tomatoes.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
(a) In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant. Unavailability of plants will not be considered a valid reason for failure to replant.
(2) We do not insure any acreage of tomatoes:
(i) Grown by any person if the person had not previously:
(A) Grown fresh market tomatoes for commercial sales; or
(B) Participated in the management of a fresh market tomato farming operation, in at least one of the three previous years.
(ii) That does not meet the rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions;
(iii) On which tomatoes, peppers, eggplants, or tobacco have been grown within the previous two years unless the soil was fumigated or nematicide was applied before planting the tomatoes, except that this limitation does not apply to a first planting in Pennsylvania or if otherwise specified in the Special Provisions; or
(b) In lieu of the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), that prohibit insurance from attaching if a crop has not been planted and harvested in at least one of the three previous calendar years, we will insure newly cleared land or former pasture land planted to fresh market tomatoes.

# 10. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(a) Coverage begins on each unit or part of a unit on the later of the date you submit your application or when the tomatoes are planted.
(b) Coverage will end on any insured acreage at the earliest of:
(1) Total destruction of the tomatoes;
(2) Discontinuance of harvest;
(3) The date harvest should have started on any acreage that was not harvested;
(4) 120 days after the date of transplanting or replanting;
(5) Completion of harvest;
(6) Final adjustment of a loss; or
(7) October 15 of the crop year in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, and Virginia; October 31 of the crop year in California; November 10 of the crop year in Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina; and September 20 of the crop year in all other states.

# 11. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against damage or loss of production that occurs or becomes evident after the tomatoes have been harvested.

# 12. Replanting Payment
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), a replanting payment is allowed if the crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss and the acreage to be replanted has sustained a loss in excess of 50 percent of the plant stand.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be:
(1) Seventy (70) cartons multiplied by your price election, multiplied by your insured share for all insured tomatoes except cherry, roma or plum types; and
(2) As specified in the Special Provisions for cherry, roma, or plum types.
(c) In lieu of the provisions contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8) that permit only one replanting payment each crop year, when both spring and fall planting periods are contained in the Special Provisions, you may be eligible for one replanting payment for acreage planted during each planting period within the crop year.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate, acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type, if applicable, by its respective production guarantee for the stage in which the damage occurred;
(2) Multiplying the results of section 13(b)(1) by the respective price election for each type, if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each type, if applicable, (see section 13(c)) by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting this result of section 13(b)(5) from the results in section 13(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 13(b)(6) by your share.
(c) The total production to count (in cartons) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Potential production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production of mature green and ripe tomatoes remaining after harvest has ended:
(A) With a classification size of 6 × 7 (2
8/32
inch minimum diameter) or larger and that would grade eighty-five percent (85%) or better U.S. No. 1 for types other than cherry, roma, or plum; or
(B) That grade in accordance with the requirements specified in the Special Provisions for cherry, roma or plum types.
(iv) Potential production on unharvested acreage and potential production on acreage when final harvest has not been completed;
(v) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage:
(i) That is marketed, regardless of grade; and
(ii) That is unmarketed and:
(A) That grades eighty-five percent (85%) or better U.S. No. 1 with a classification size of 6 × 7 (2-8/32 inch minimum diameter) or larger for all types except cherry, roma, or plum; or
(B) That grade in accordance with the requirements specified in the Special Provisions for cherry, roma, or plum types.
(d) Only that amount of appraised production that exceeds the difference between the final stage guarantee and the stage guarantee applicable to the acreage will be production to count.

# 14. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 23631, May 1, 1997; 62 FR 33539, June 20, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65171, Dec. 10, 1997; 63 FR 36157, July 2, 1998; 63 FR 50753, Sept. 23, 1998; 87 FR 38892, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52853, Aug. 30, 2022]
§ 457.129
Fresh market sweet corn crop insurance provisions.
The fresh market sweet corn crop insurance provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of November 30, and for the 2024 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of April 30, are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies

# Fresh Market Sweet Corn Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Allowable cost.
The dollar amount per container for harvesting, packing, and handling as shown in the actuarial documents.
Amount of insurance (per acre).
The dollar amount of coverage per acre obtained by multiplying the reference maximum dollar amount shown on the actuarial documents by the coverage level percentage you elect.
Average net value per container.
The dollar amount obtained by totaling the net values of all containers of sweet corn sold and dividing the result by the total number of containers of all sweet corn sold.
Container.
The unit of measurement for the insured crop as specified in the Special Provisions.
Crop year.
In lieu of the definition of “crop year” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, for counties with fall, winter, and spring planting periods or counties with fall and spring planting periods, the period of time that begins on the first day of the earliest planting period for fall planted sweet corn and continues through the last day of the insurance period for spring planted sweet corn. For counties with only spring planting periods, the period of time that begins on the earliest planting period for spring planted sweet corn and continues through the last day of the insurance period for spring planted sweet corn. The crop year is designated by the calendar year in which spring planted sweet corn is harvested.
Harvest.
Separation of ears of sweet corn from the plant by hand or machine.
Marketable sweet corn.
Sweet corn that is sold for any purpose or grades U.S. No. 1 or better in accordance with the requirements of the United States Standards for Grades of Sweet Corn.
Minimum value.
The dollar amount per container shown in the actuarial documents we will use to value marketable production to count.
Net value.
The dollar value of packed and sold sweet corn obtained by subtracting the allowable cost and any additional charges specified in the Special Provisions from the gross value per container of sweet corn sold. This result may not be less than zero.
Plant stand.
The number of live plants per acre prior to the occurrence of an insurable cause of loss.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, for each planting period, sweet corn seed must be planted in rows far enough apart to permit mechanical cultivation, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Planting period.
The period of time designated in the actuarial documents in which sweet corn must be planted to be considered fall, winter, or spring-planted sweet corn.
Potential production.
The number of containers of sweet corn that the sweet corn plants will or would have produced per acre by the end of the insurance period, assuming normal growing conditions and practices.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors, including but not limited to moisture availability, condition of the field, marketing windows, and time to crop maturity, that replanting to the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period (inability to obtain seed will not be considered when determining if it is practical to replant).
Sweet corn.
A type of corn with kernels containing a high percentage of sugar that is adapted for human consumption as a vegetable.

# 2. Unit Division
A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will also be established for each planting period.

# 3. Amounts of Insurance and Production Stages
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one coverage level (and the corresponding amount of insurance designated in the actuarial documents for the applicable planting period and practice) for all the sweet corn in the county insured under this policy.
(b) The amount of insurance you choose for each planting period and practice must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each planting period and practice. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum amount
of insurance for a specific planting period and practice, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum amount of insurance for all other planting periods and practices.
(c) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 of the Basic Provisions do not apply to sweet corn.
(d) If specified in the Special Provisions, we will limit your amount of insurance per acre if you have not produced the minimum amount of production of sweet corn contained in the Special Provisions in at least one of the three most recent crop years.
(e) The amounts of insurance are progressive by stages as follows:
Stage
Percent of the amount of insurance per acre that you selected
Length of time
1
65
From planting through the beginning of tasseling (which is when the tassel becomes visible above the whorl).
Final
100
From tasseling until the acreage is harvested.
(f) The indemnity payable for any acreage of sweet corn will be based on the stage the plants had achieved when damage occurred. Any acreage of sweet corn damaged in the first stage to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would not normally further care for it will have an amount of insurance based on the first stage for the purposes of establishing an indemnity even if you continue to care for the damaged sweet corn.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date shown below is the date preceding the cancellation date:
State and county
Date
All Florida counties; and all Georgia counties for which the Special Provisions designate a fall planting period
April 30.
Toombs County, Georgia; and all other states
November 30.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State and county
Cancellation and termination dates
Florida; and all Georgia counties for which the Special Provisions designate a fall planting period
July 31.
Alabama; and Toombs County, Georgia
February 15.
All other states
March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must report on or before the acreage reporting date contained in the Special Provisions for each planting period, all the acreage of sweet corn in the county insured under this policy in which you have a share.

# 7. Annual Premium
In lieu of the premium amount determinations contained in section 7 of the Basic Provisions, the annual premium amount for each cultural practice (
e.g.,
fall-planted irrigated) is determined by multiplying the final stage amount of insurance per acre by the premium rate for the cultural practice as established in the Actuarial Table, by the insured acreage, by your share at the time coverage begins, and by any applicable premium adjustment factors contained in the actuarial documents.

# 8. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the sweet corn in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That is:
(1) Planted to be harvested and sold as fresh market sweet corn;
(2) Planted within the planting periods designated in the actuarial documents;
(3) Grown under an irrigated practice, unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions; and
(4) Grown by a person who in at least one of the three previous crop years:
(i) Grew sweet corn for commercial sale; or
(ii) Participated in managing a sweet corn farming operation;
(c) That is not:
(1) Interplanted with another crop;
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume; or
(3) Grown for direct marketing, unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions or by written agreement.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions any acreage of sweet corn damaged during the planting period in which initial planting took place:
(a) Must be replanted if:
(1) Less than 75 percent of the plant stand remains;
(2) It is practical to replant; and
(3) The final day of the planting period has not passed at the time the crop was damaged.
(b) Whenever sweet corn is initially planted during the fall or winter planting periods and the final planting date for the planting period has passed, but it is considered practical to replant, you may elect:
(1) To replant such acreage and collect any replant payment due as specified in section 12. The initial planting period coverage will continue for such replanted acreage; or
(2) Not to replant such acreage and receive an indemnity based on the stage of growth the plants had attained at the time of damage. However, such an election will result in the acreage being uninsurable in the subsequent planting period.

# 10. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, coverage begins on each unit or part of a unit the later of the date we accept your application, or when the sweet corn is planted in each planting period. Coverage ends at the earliest of:
(a) Total destruction of the sweet corn on the unit;
(b) Abandonment of the sweet corn on the unit;
(c) The date harvest should have started on the unit on any acreage which will not be harvested;
(d) Final adjustment of a loss on the unit;
(e) Final harvest; or
(f) 100 days after the date of planting or replanting, unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions.

# 11. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Wildlife;
(4) Volcanic eruption;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(7) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss due to:
(1) Failure to harvest in a timely manner unless harvest is prevented by one of the insurable causes of loss specified in section 11(a); or
(2) Failure to market the sweet corn unless such failure is due to actual physical damage caused by an insured cause of loss as specified in section 11(a). For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 12. Replanting Payments
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if, due to an insured cause of loss, more than 25 percent of the plant stand will not produce sweet corn and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of your actual cost of replanting or the result obtained by multiplying the per acre replanting payment amount contained in the Special Provisions by your insured share.
(c) In lieu of the provisions contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions, limiting a replanting payment to one each crop year, only one replanting payment will be made for acreage planted during each planting period within the crop year.

# 13. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements contained in section 14 of the Basic Provisions, if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit:
(a) You also must give us notice not later than 72 hours after the earliest of:
(1) The time you discontinue harvest of any acreage on the unit;
(2) The date harvest normally would start if any acreage on the unit will not be harvested; or
(3) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period.
(b) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine the value of your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal if you notify us that additional damage has occurred. These appraisals, and/or any acceptable production records provided by you, will be used to determine the value of your production to count.
(c) Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count of not less than the dollar amount of insurance (per acre) for the applicable stage if such failure results in our inability to accurately determine the value of production.

# 14. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage in each stage by the amount of insurance per acre for the final stage;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 14(b)(1) by the percentage for the applicable stage (see section 3(e));
(3) Totaling the results of section 14(b)(2);
(4) Subtracting either of the following values from the result of section 14(b)(3):
(i) For other than catastrophic risk protection coverage, the total value of production to be counted (see section 14(c)); or
(ii) For catastrophic risk protection coverage, the result of multiplying the total value of production to be counted (see section 14(c)) by fifty-five percent; and
(5) Multiplying the result of section 14(b)(4) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 65.3 acres of fresh market sweet corn in the unit (15.0 acres in stage 1 and 50.3 acres in the final stage), with a dollar amount of insurance of $1,000 per acre. The 15.0 acre field was damaged by flood and appraisals of the crop determined there was no potential production to be counted. From the 50.3 acre field, you are only able to harvest 5,627 containers of sweet corn. The net value of all sweet corn production sold ($3.50 per container) is greater than the Minimum Value per container ($3.30). The 5,627 containers sold × $3.50 average net value per container = $19,694.50 value of your production to count. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 15.0 acres × $1,000 amount of insurance = $15,000 and 50.3 acres × $1,000 amount of insurance = $50,300;
(2) $15,000 × .65 (percent for stage 1) = $9,750 and $50,300 × 1.00 (percent for final stage) = $50,300;
(3) $9,750 + $50,300 = $60,050 amount of insurance for the unit;
(4) $60,050−$19,694.50 value of production to count = $40,355.50 loss;
(5) $40,355.50 × 100 percent share = $40,355.50 indemnity payment.
(c) The total value of production to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) Not less than the amount of insurance per acre for the stage for any acreage:
(i) That is abandoned;
(ii) Put to another use without our consent;
(iii) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes;
(iv) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records; or
(v) From which insurable production is sold by direct marketing and you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 13(b) of these Crop Provisions;
(2) The value of the following appraised sweet corn production will not be less than the dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of containers of appraised sweet corn by the minimum value for the planting period:
(i) Unharvested marketable sweet corn production (unharvested production that is damaged or defective due to insurable causes and is not marketable will not be counted as production to count unless such production is later harvested and sold for any purpose);
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes; and
(iii) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) We may require you to continue to care for the crop so that a subsequent appraisal may be made or the crop harvested to determine actual production (If we require you to continue to care for the crop and you do not do so, the original appraisal will be used); or
(B) You may elect to continue to care for the crop, in which case the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if the crop is not harvested.
(3) The value of all harvested production of sweet corn from the insurable acreage, except production that is sold by direct marketing as specified in section (c)(4) below:
(i) For sold production, will be the greater of:
(A) The dollar amount obtained by multiplying the total number of containers of sweet corn sold by the minimum value; or
(B) The dollar amount obtained by multiplying the average net value per container from all sweet corn sold by the total number of all containers of sweet corn sold.
(ii) For marketable sweet corn production that is not sold, will be the dollar amount
obtained by multiplying the number of containers of such sweet corn by the minimum value for the planting period. Harvested production that is damaged or defective due to insurable causes and is not marketable will not be counted as production to count unless such production is sold.
(4) If all the requirements of insurability are met, the value of insurable production that is sold by direct marketing will be the greater of:
(i) The actual value received by you for direct marketed production; or
(ii) The dollar amount obtained by multiplying the total number of containers of appraised sweet corn sold by direct marketing by the minimum value.

# 15. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 16. Minimum Value Option
(a) The provisions of this option are continuous and will be attached to and made a part of your insurance policy, if:
(1) You elect the Minimum Value Option on your application, or on a form approved by us, on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year in which you wish to insure sweet corn under this option, and pay the additional premium indicated in the actuarial documents for this optional coverage; and
(2) You have not elected coverage under the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement.
(b) In lieu of the provisions contained in section 14(c)(3) of these Crop Provisions, the total value of harvested production that is not sold by direct marketing will be determined as follows:
(1) The dollar amount obtained by multiplying the average net value per container from all sweet corn sold (this result may not be less than the minimum value option amount if such amount is provided in the actuarial documents) by the total number of all containers of sweet corn sold;
(2) For marketable sweet corn production that is not sold, the value of such production will be the dollar amount obtained by multiplying the total number of containers of such sweet corn by the minimum value for the planting period. Harvested production that is damaged or defective due to insurable causes and is not marketable will not be included as production to count.
(c) If all the requirements of insurability are met, the value of insurable production that is sold by direct marketing will be the greater of:
(1) The actual value received by you for direct marketed production; or
(2) The dollar amount obtained by multiplying the total number of containers of sweet corn sold by direct marketing by the minimum value.
(d) This option may be canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice on or before the cancellation date preceding the crop year for which the cancellation of this option is to be effective.
[62 FR 14783, Mar. 28, 1997; 62 FR 26205, May 13, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65171, Dec. 10, 1997; 72 FR 54523, Sept. 26, 2007; 72 FR 62767, Nov. 7, 2007; 87 FR 38893, June 30, 2022]
§ 457.130
Macadamia tree crop insurance provisions.
The macadamia tree crop insurance provisions for the 2016 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider).
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Macadamia Tree Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Age.
The number of complete 12-month periods that have elapsed since the month the trees were set out or were grafted, whichever is later. Age determination will be made for each unit, or portion thereof, as of January 1 of each crop year.
Crop year.
A period beginning with the date insurance attaches to the macadamia tree crop extending through December 31 of the same calendar year. The crop year is designated by the calendar year in which insurance attaches.
Damaged.
Injury to the main trunk, scaffold limb(s), and any other subordinate limbs that reduces the productivity of the macadamia tree due to an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period.
Destroyed.
Trees damaged to the extent that we determine replacement, including grafts, is required.
Good farming practices.
The cultural practices generally in use in the county for the crop to have normal growth and vigor, and are those recognized by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions in the area.
Graft.
The uniting of a macadamia shoot to an established macadamia tree rootstock for future production of macadamia nuts.
Interplanted.
Acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Irrigated practice.
A method by which the normal growth and vigor of the insured trees is maintained by artificially applying adequate quantities of water during the growing season by appropriate systems and at the proper times.
Rootstock.
The root and stem portion of a macadamia tree to which a macadamia shoot can be grafted.
Scaffold limb.
A major limb attached directly to the trunk.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm serial number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable. Optional units may be established only if each optional unit is located on non-contiguous land or grown and insured under an organic farming practice, unless otherwise allowed by written agreement.
(b) You must have provided records, which can be independently verified, of acreage and age of trees for each unit for at least the last crop year.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Dollar Amounts for Determining Indemnities
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) You may select only one dollar amount of insurance for all the macadamia trees in the county in each age group contained in the actuarial table that are insured under this policy. The dollar amount of insurance you choose for each age group must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum dollar amount offered by us for each age group. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum dollar amount of insurance for one age group, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum dollar amount of insurance for all other age groups.
(2) If the stand is less than 90 percent, based on the original planting pattern, the dollar amount of insurance will be reduced 1 percent for each percent below 90 percent. For example, if the dollar amount of insurance you selected is $2,000 and the stand is 85 percent of the original stand, the dollar amount of insurance on which any indemnity will be based is $1,900 ($2,000 multiplied by 0.95).
(3) You must report, by the sales closing date contained in the Special Provisions, by type if applicable:
(i) Any damage, removal of trees, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the dollar amount of insurance and the number of affected acres;
(ii) The number of trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(iii) The month and year on which the trees were set out or grafted and the planting pattern;
(iv) For the first year of insurance following replacement, the month and year of replacement if more than 10 percent of the trees on any unit have been replaced in the previous five crop years; and
(v) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage is changed:
(A) The age of the interplanted crop, and type if applicable;
(B) The planting pattern; and
(C) Any other information that we request in order to establish your dollar amount of insurance.
We will reduce the dollar amount of insurance as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of interplanted perennial crop, removal of trees, damage, change in practices, and any other circumstance that adversely affects the insured crop. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your dollar amount of insurance from previous levels, we will reduce your dollar amount of insurance as necessary at any time we become aware of the circumstance.
(b) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), do not apply to macadamia trees.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are December 31.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the crop insured will be all macadamia trees in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial table:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown for the production of macadamia nuts;
(c) For which the rootstock is adapted to the area;
(d) That are at least one year of age when the insurance period begins; and
(e) That, if the orchard is inspected, is considered acceptable by us.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8) that prohibit, that
prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, macadamia trees interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 8. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) Coverage begins on January 1 of each crop year, except that for the year of application, if your application is received after December 22 but prior to January 1, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 10-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the orchard.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is December 31.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of macadamia trees on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Earthquake;
(4) Volcanic eruption;
(5) Wildlife, unless proper measures to control wildlife have not been taken; or
(6) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against damage due to disease or insect infestation, unless adverse weather:
(1) Prevents the proper application of control measures or causes properly applied control measures to be ineffective; or
(2) Causes disease or insect infestation for which no effective control mechanism is available.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, in case of damage or probable loss, if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must allow us to inspect all insured acreage before pruning any damaged trees, removing any damaged trees, or removing any destroyed trees.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by the dollar amount of insurance per acre for each age group;
(2) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(1);
(3) Determine the applicable percent of loss, which is calculated as follows:
(i) Subtract the coverage level percent you elected from 100 percent;
(ii) Determine the actual percent of loss, which is determined as follows:
(A) For destroyed trees, divide the number of trees destroyed by the total number of trees and multiply by 100 to calculate the percent of loss;
(B) For damaged trees:
(1)
Divide the number of trees damaged by the total number of trees (both damaged and undamaged) to calculate the amount of damage;
(2)
Divide the number of damaged scaffold limbs by the total number of scaffold limbs on each damaged tree to calculate the amount of damage for each damaged tree;
(3)
Total the results in (b)(3)(ii)(B)
(2);
(4)
Divide the result of (b)(3)(ii)(B)
(3)
by the number of damaged trees;
(5)
Multiply the result of (b)(3)(ii)(B)
(1)
by the result of (b)(3)(ii)(B)
(4),
then multiply that result by 100 to calculate the percent of loss; and
(C) Add the results of sections 11(b)(3)(ii)(A) and (B).
(iii) Subtract the result obtained in section 11(b)(3)(i) from section 11(b)(3)(ii);
(iv) Divide the result in section 11(b)(3)(iii) by the coverage level you elected (For example, if you elected the 75 percent coverage
level and your actual percent of loss was 70 percent, the percent of loss specified in section 11(b)(3) would be calculated as follows: 100%−75% = 25%; 70%−25% = 45%; 45% ÷ 75% = 60%.);
(4) Multiply the result of section 11(b)(3) by the total dollar amount of insurance obtained in section 11(b)(2); and
(5) Multiply the result in section 11(b)(4) by your share.
For example:
You select 65 percent coverage level and 100 percent of the price election on 10 acres of 9-year-old macadamia trees in the unit. Your share is 100 percent. The amount of insurance per acre is $5,850. There are 90 trees per unit. Thirty-five trees are destroyed. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 10 acres × $5,850 = $58,500;
(3)(i) 100 percent − 65 percent = 35 percent deductible;
(ii) 35 destroyed trees ÷ 90 total unit trees = 38.9 percent loss;
(iii) 38.9 percent loss − 35 percent deductible = 3.9 percent;
(iv) 3.9 percent ÷ 65 percent coverage level = 6.0 percent loss;
(4) $58,500 total amount of insurance × 6.0 percent loss = $3,510 loss; and
(5) $3,510 loss × 100 percent share = $3,510 indemnity payment.
(c) The total amount of loss will include both damaged trees and destroyed trees as follows:
(1) Any orchard with damage, destruction, or combined damage and destruction, that results in a total percent of loss greater than 80 percent due to an insured cause of loss will be considered to be 100 percent damaged and/or destroyed; and
(2) Any percent of damage by uninsured causes will not be included in the percent of loss.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 35668, July 2, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65172, Dec. 10, 1997; 75 FR 15887, Mar. 30, 2010; 76 FR 4804, Jan. 27, 2011; 80 FR 20412, Apr. 16, 2015; 80 FR 48004, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 457.131
Macadamia nut crop insurance provisions.
The Macadamia Nut Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2026 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Macadamia Nut Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Macadamia Nut Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Age.
The number of complete 12-month periods that have elapsed since the month the trees were set out or were grafted, whichever is later. An age determination will be made for each unit, or portion of a unit, as of January 1 of each crop year.
Floaters.
Inedible, husked “field run” nuts identified by water flotation or laboratory testing.
Graft.
The uniting of a macadamia shoot to an established macadamia tree rootstock for future production of macadamia nuts.
Harvest.
Picking of mature macadamia nuts from the ground.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Peewees.
Mature and immature wet in-shell nuts that are smaller than 16 mm (5/8 inch) in diameter.
Pound.
A unit of weight equal to 16 ounces avoirdupois.
Production guarantee (per acre).
In addition to the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the number of pounds is wet, in-shell macadamia nuts.
Rootstock.
The root and stem portion of a macadamia tree to which a macadamia shoot can be grafted.
Wet in-shell.
The weight of the macadamia nuts as they are removed from the orchard with the nut meats in the shells after removal of the husk and excluding floaters and peewees but prior to being dried.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) Optional units may be established by:
(1) Organic and non-organic farming practices as provided in section 34(c)(3) of the Basic Provisions; or
(2) Non-contiguous land.
(b) Optional units by land location as provided in section 34(c)(1) of the Basic Provisions and by irrigation practice as provided in section 34(c)(2) of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the macadamia nuts in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each macadamia nut type designated in the actuarial documents. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type if applicable:
(1) Any damage, removal of trees, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees and the planting pattern; and
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage is changed:
(i) The age of the interplanted crop, and type if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(c) We will reduce the approved yield, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any circumstance listed in section 3(b) that may reduce your yields from previous levels. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your approved yield at any time we become aware of the circumstance. If the circumstance occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the circumstance was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss;
(2) After the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the approved yield is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Before or after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, an amount equal to the reduction in the approved yield will be added to the production to count calculated in section 11(c)(1)(ii) due to uninsured causes. We will reduce your approved yield for the subsequent crop year to reflect any reduction in the productive capacity of the trees or in the yield potential of the insured acreage.
(d) Your approved yield will be determined in accordance with sections 3 and 5 of the Basic Provisions unless damage or changes to the orchard or trees require establishment of the yield by another method. In the event of such damage or changes, the yield will be based on our appraisal of the potential of the insured acreage for the crop year.
(e) Instead of reporting your production for the current crop year, as required by section 3(f)(1) of the Basic Provisions, there is a lag year and you are required to report production from two crop years ago by the production reporting date,
e.g.,
2024 crop year production must be reported by the production reporting date for the 2026 crop year.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are December 31.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all macadamia nuts in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown on tree varieties that:
(1) Were commercially available when the trees were set out;
(2) Are adapted to the area; and
(3) Are grown on a rootstock that is adapted to the area.
(c) That are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us;
(d) That are grown on trees that have reached at least the fifth leaf year, including the fifth leaf year after grafting if grafting occurs after set out, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions; and
(e) That are produced from blooms that normally occur during the calendar year in which insurance attaches and that are normally harvested prior to the end of the insurance period.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, macadamia nuts interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 8. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) Coverage begins on January 1 of each crop year, except that for the year of application, if your application is received after December 22 but prior to January 1, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 10-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the orchard.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is the second June 30th after insurance attaches, or as specified in the Special Provisions.
(b) In addition to section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of macadamia nuts on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Earthquake;
(4) Volcanic eruption;
(5) Wildlife, unless proper measures to control wildlife have not been taken; or
(6) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Disease or insect infestation, unless adverse weather:
(i) Prevents the proper application of control measures or causes properly applied control measures to be ineffective; or
(ii) Causes disease or insect infestation for which no effective control mechanism is available;
(2) Inability to market the macadamia nuts for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(a) You must notify us within 3 days of the date harvest should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(b) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count of not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(c) If you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must notify us at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest or immediately if damage is discovered during harvest, so that we may inspect the damaged production. You must not destroy the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so. If you fail to meet the requirements of this section and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, we may consider all such production to be undamaged and include it as production to count.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate, acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type, if applicable, by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election for each type, if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each type, if applicable (see section 11(c)), by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the results in section 11(b)(5) from the results in section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 11(b)(6) by your share.

# Example for Section 11(b)
You select the 65 percent coverage level and 100 percent of the price election on 10 acres of macadamia nuts in the unit. Your share is 100 percent. Your production guarantee (per acre) is 4,000 pounds. The price election is $1.00. You are able to harvest 25,000 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 10 acres × 4,000 pounds = 40,000 pounds guarantee;
(2) 40,000 pounds × $1.00 price election = $40,000 total value of guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) 25,000 pounds production to count × $1.00 price election = $25,000 value of production to count;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) $40,000 total value of guarantee− $25,000 value of production to count = $15,000 loss; and
(7) $15,000 loss × 100 percent share = $15,000 indemnity payment.
End of Example.
(c) The total production to count (wet in-shell pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 10;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 35664, July 2, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65172, Dec. 10, 1997; 75 FR 15887, Mar. 30, 2010; 75 FR 59057, Sept. 27, 2010; 80 FR 20412, Apr. 16, 2015; 87 FR 38893, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52853, Aug. 30, 2022; 88 FR 59790, Aug. 30, 2023; 88 FR 70339, Oct. 11, 2023; 89 FR 53839, June 27, 2024]
§ 457.132
Cranberry crop insurance provisions.
The cranberry crop insurance provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies

# Cranberry Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Barrel.
100 pounds of cranberries.
Harvest.
Removal of the cranberries from the bog.
Market price.
The cash price per barrel of cranberries offered by buyers in the area in which you normally market the cranberries.

# 2. Unit Division
Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable. Optional units may be established only if each optional unit is located on non-contiguous land, unless otherwise allowed by written agreement.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(a) You may select only one price election for all the cranberries in the county insured under this policy.
(b) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) Any damage, removal of vines, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The age of the vines; and
(3) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
We will adjust the yield used to establish your production guarantee as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of the removal of vines, damage, change in practices, and any other circumstance that may affect the yield potential of the insured crop. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may affect your yields from previous levels, we will adjust your production guarantee as necessary at any time we become aware of the circumstance.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are November 20.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the crop insured will be all the cranberries in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown for harvest as cranberries;
(c) That are grown in a bog that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us; and
(d) That are grown on vines that have reached at least the fourth leaf year unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions.

# 7. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) Coverage begins on November 21 of each crop year, except that for the year of application, if your application is received after November 11, but prior to November 21, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 10 day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the bog.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is November 20.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of cranberries on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for, such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 8. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the bog;
(3) Wildlife;
(4) Earthquake;
(5) Volcanic eruption;
(6) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period; or
(7) Failure or breakdown of irrigation equipment or facilities due to direct damage to the irrigation equipment or facilities from an insurable cause of loss if the cranberry crop is damaged by freezing temperatures within 72 hours of such failure or breakdown and repair or replacement was not possible before damage occurred.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Disease or insect infestation, unless adverse weather:
(i) Prevents the proper application of control measures or causes properly applied control measures to be ineffective; or
(ii) Causes disease or insect infestation for which no effective control mechanism is available; or
(2) Inability to market the cranberries for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause of loss specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 9. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(a) If you discover damage, or if you intend to claim an indemnity on any insured unit, you must give us notice of probable loss:
(1) At least 15 days before the beginning of any harvesting, or
(2) Immediately if probable loss is discovered after harvesting has begun.
(b) You must not sell or dispose of any damaged production until the earlier of 15 days from the date of notice of loss or when we give you written consent to do so.
(c) If you fail to meet the requirements of this section, and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 10. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying the result of section 10(b)(1) by the price election;
(3) Multiplying the total production to be counted, (see section 10(c)) by the price election;
(4) Subtracting the total in section 10(b)(3) from the total in section 10(b)(2); and
(5) Multiplying the result in section 10(b)(4) by your share.
(c) The total production to count (in barrels) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Damaged solely by uninsured causes;
(C) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records; or
(D) Destroyed or put to another use without our consent;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we will use the appraised amount of production or defer the claim if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general to the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(3) Harvested production which, due to insurable causes, is determined not to meet the United States Standards for Fresh Cranberries if available, or would not meet those standards if properly handled, or does not meet the quality requirements of the receiving handler if the United States Standards for Fresh Cranberries, if not available, and such harvested production has a value less than 75 percent of the market price for cranberries meeting the minimum requirements will be adjusted by:
(i) Dividing the value per barrel of such cranberries by the market price per barrel for cranberries meeting the minimum requirements; and
(ii) Multiplying the result by the number of barrels of such cranberries.

# 11. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 5905, Feb. 10, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65172, Dec. 10, 1997; 87 FR 38894, June 30, 2022]
§ 457.133
Prune crop insurance provisions.
The Prune Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2026 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Prune Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Prune Crop Provisions will be attached
to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Harvest.
Picking of mature prunes from the trees or ground either by hand or machine.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Natural condition prunes.
The condition of prunes in which they are normally delivered from a dehydrator or dry yard.
Prunes.
Any type or variety of plums that is grown in the area for the production of prunes and that meets the requirements defined in the applicable Marketing Order for California Prunes.
Standard prunes.
Any natural condition prunes:
(1) That grade “C,” “U.S. Standard,” or better in accordance with the United States Standards for Grades of Dried Prunes; or
(2) That meet or exceed the grade standards in effect for the crop year if a Marketing Order for California Prunes has been established for the area in which the insured crop is grown.
Ton.
Two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) Optional units may be established by:
(1) Land location as provided in section 34(c)(1) of the Basic Provisions;
(2) Organic or non-organic farming practices as provided in section 34(c)(3) of the Basic Provisions;
(3) Combination of land location and organic farming practices as provided in section 34(c)(4) of the Basic Provisions; or
(4) Non-contiguous land.
(b) Optional units by irrigation practice as provided in section 34(c)(2) of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the prunes in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each type designated in the actuarial documents. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type if applicable:
(1) Any damage, removal of trees, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yields below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees and the planting pattern; and
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage is changed:
(i) The age of the interplanted crop, and type, if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(c) We will reduce the approved yield, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any circumstance listed in section 3(b) that may reduce your yields from previous levels. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your approved yield at any time we become aware of the circumstance. If the circumstance occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the circumstance was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss;
(2) After the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the approved yield is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Before or after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, an amount equal to the reduction in the approved yield will be added to the production to count calculated in section 11(c)(1)(ii) due to uninsured causes. We will reduce your approved yield for the subsequent crop year to reflect any reduction in the productive capacity of the trees or in the yield potential of the insured acreage.
(d) You may not increase your elected or assigned coverage level or the ratio of your price election to the maximum price election if a cause of loss that could or would reduce the yield of the insured crop has occurred prior to the time that you request the increase.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is October 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are January 31.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the prunes in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown for the production of natural condition prunes;
(c) That are grown on trees that:
(1) Are listed as insurable types in the Special Provisions;
(2) Are grown on rootstock that is adapted to the area;
(3) Are irrigated (except where otherwise provided in the Special Provisions);
(4) Are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us; and
(5) Have reached at least the seventh leaf year.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, prunes interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the insurability requirements contained in your policy.

# 8. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) For the year of application, coverage begins on March 1. For each subsequent crop year the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is October 1.
(b) In addition to section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of prunes on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year and if the acreage was insured by you the previous crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.
(c) If your prune policy is canceled or terminated for any crop year, in accordance with the terms of the policy, after insurance attached for that crop year but on or before the cancellation and termination dates, whichever is later, insurance will not be considered to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Wildlife;
(4) Earthquake;
(5) Volcanic eruption;
(6) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause specified in section 9(a)(1) through (5) that occurs during the insurance period;
(7) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures; or
(8) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to inability to market the prunes for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must leave representative samples in accordance with our procedures.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(1) You must notify us within 3 days of the date harvest should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(2) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing or is sold as fresh fruit production. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing or sold as fresh fruit will result in an appraised amount of production to count of not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(3) If you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must notify us at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest, or immediately if damage is discovered during harvest, so that we may inspect the damaged production.
(4) You must not destroy the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so. If you fail to meet the requirements of this section and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type, if applicable, by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying the result of 11(b)(1) by the respective price election for each type, if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to count (see section 11(c)), of each type, if applicable, by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result of section 11(b)(5) from the result of section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 11(b)(6) by your share.

# Examples for Section 11(b)
Example 1:
You select 75 percent coverage level, 100 percent of the price election, and have a 100 percent share in 50.0 acres of type 1 prunes in the unit. The approved yield is 2.5 tons per acre and your price election is $1,000 per ton. You harvest 10.0 tons. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50.0 acres × 2.5 tons × 0.75 = 93.75-ton production guarantee;
(2) 93.75-ton guarantee × $1,000 price election = $93,750 value of production guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) 10.0 tons × $1,000 price election = $10,000 value of production to count;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) $93,750− $10,000 = $83,750 loss; and
(7) $83,750 × 1.000 share = $83,750 indemnity payment.
Example 2:
In addition to the information in the first example, you have an additional 50.0 acres of type 2 prunes with 100 percent share in the same unit. The approved yield is 2.0 tons per acre and the price election is $900 per ton. You harvest 5.0 tons. Your total indemnity for both types 1 and 2 would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50.0 acres × 2.5 tons × 0.75 = 93.75-ton production guarantee for type 1 and 50.0 acres × 2.0 tons × 0.75 = 75.0-ton production guarantee for type 2;
(2) 93.75-ton guarantee × $1,000 price election = $93,750 value of production guarantee for type 1 and 75.0-ton guarantee × $900 price election = $67,500 value production guarantee for type 2;
(3) $93,750 + $67,500 = $ 161,250 total value of production guarantee;
(4) 10.0 tons × $1,000 price election = $10,000 value of production to count for type 1 and 5.0 tons × $900 price election = $4,500 value of production to count for type 2;
(5) $10,000 + $4,500 = $14,500 total value of production to count;
(6) $161,250− $14,500 = $146,750 loss; and
(7) $146,750 loss × 1.000 share = $146,750 indemnity payment.
End of Examples.
(c) The total production to count (in tons) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing or sold as fresh fruit if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 10;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production that meets the definition of standard prunes; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage that:
(i) Meets the definition of standard prunes;
(ii) Is intended for use as fresh fruit;
(iii) Is sold as standard prunes; or
(iv) Is damaged due to uninsured causes.
(d) Any prune production harvested for fresh fruit will be converted to a dried prune weight basis by dividing the total amount (in tons) of fresh fruit production by 3.0.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 58630, Oct. 30, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65172, Dec. 10, 1997; 65 FR 47839, Aug. 4, 2000; 77 FR 59048, Sept. 26, 2012; 87 FR 38894, June 30, 2022; 89 FR 53840, June 27, 2024; 89 FR 93467, Nov. 27, 2024]
§ 457.134
Peanut crop insurance provisions.
The Peanut Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2017 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# FCIC policies: United States Department of Agriculture, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.

# Reinsured policies: (Appropriate title for insurance provider).

# Both FCIC and reinsured policies.

# Peanut Crop Insurance Provisions.

# 1. Definitions
Base contract price.
The price for farmers' stock peanuts stipulated in the sheller contract, without regard to discounts or incentives that may apply, not to exceed the price election times the price factor specified in the Special Provisions.
Farmers' stock peanuts.
Picked or threshed peanuts produced in the United States, which are not shelled, crushed, cleaned, or otherwise changed (except for removal of foreign material, loose shelled kernels and excess moisture) from the condition in which peanuts are customarily marketed by producers.
Green peanuts.
Peanuts that are harvested and marketed prior to maturity without drying or removal of moisture either by natural or artificial means.
Handler.
A person who is a sheller, a buying point, a marketing association, or has a contract with a sheller or a marketing association to accept all of the peanuts marketed through the marketing association for the crop year. The handler acquires peanuts for resale, domestic consumption, processing, exportation, or crushing through a business involved in buying and selling peanuts or peanut products.
Harvest.
The completion of digging and threshing and removal of peanuts from the field.
Marketing association.
A cooperative approved by the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture to administer payment programs for peanuts.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the requirement in the definition in the Basic Provisions, peanuts must initially be planted in a row pattern which permits mechanical cultivation, or that allows the peanuts to be cared for in a manner recognized by agricultural experts as a good farming practice. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.
Price election.
In addition to the definition in the Basic Provisions, the price election for peanuts insured in accordance with a sheller contract will be the base contract price specified in the sheller contract.
Price factor.
The factor specified in the Special Provisions that places limits on the base contract price.
Sheller.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in processing peanuts for human consumption; that possesses all licenses and permits for processing peanuts required by the state in which it operates; and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process contracted peanuts within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Sheller contract.
A written agreement between the producer and a sheller, or the producer and a handler, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow peanuts, and to deliver the peanut production to the sheller or handler;
(b) The sheller's or handler's commitment to purchase all the production stated in the sheller contract (an option to purchase is not a commitment); and
(c) A base contract price.
If the agreement fails to contain any of these terms, it will not be considered a sheller contract.

# 2. Unit Division
In accordance with the Basic Provisions, basic and optional units are applicable, unless limited by the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) The price election percentage you choose for peanuts which are not insured in accordance with a sheller contract (may also include peanuts in excess of the amount required to fulfill your sheller contract) and for peanuts insured in accordance with a sheller contract must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for peanuts not insured in accordance with a sheller contract. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for peanuts not insured in accordance with a sheller contract, you must also choose 100 percent of the applicable price election for peanuts insured in accordance with a sheller contract.
(b) You may not insure more pounds of peanuts than your production guarantee (per acre) multiplied by the number of acres that will be planted to peanuts. For the purposes of determining the guarantee, premiums, indemnities, replant payments, and prevented planting payments:
(1) Where all production of peanuts is grown under one or more sheller contracts, you may elect a price election to cover all insurable peanuts that is the base contract price contained in such sheller contracts or the price contained in the Special Provisions.
(2) Where some peanuts are grown under one or more sheller contracts but some peanuts are not grown under a sheller contract, you may elect:
(i) The price election contained in the Special Provisions to cover all insurable peanuts; or
(ii) The price election using the base contract price for peanuts grown under a sheller contract and the price contained in the Special Provisions for peanuts not grown under a sheller contract.
(3) Where none of the peanuts are grown under a sheller contract, the price election will be the price contained in the Special Provisions.
(c) Any peanuts excluded from the sheller contract at any time during the crop year will be insured at the price election specified in the Special Provisions.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State and county
Dates
Jackson, Victoria, Golliad, Bee, Live Oak, McMullen, La Salle, and Dimmit Counties, Texas and all Texas Counties lying south, thereof
January 15.
El Paso, Hudspeth, Culberson, Reeves, Loving, Winkler, Ector, Upton, Reagan, Sterling, Coke, Tom Green, Concho, McCulloch, San Saba, Mills, Hamilton, Bosque, Johnson, Tarrant, Wise, Cooke Counties, Texas, and all Texas counties south and east thereof; and all other states, except New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Virginia
February 28.
New Mexico; Oklahoma; Virginia; and all other Texas counties
March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of all sheller contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date if you wish to insure your peanuts in accordance with your sheller contract.

# 7. [Reserved]

# 8. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the peanuts in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are planted for the purpose of marketing as farmers' stock peanuts;
(3) That are a type of peanut designated in the Special Provisions as being insurable;
(4) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Planted for the purpose of harvesting as green peanuts;
(ii) Interplanted with another crop; or
(iii) Planted into an established grass or legume; and
(5) Whether or not the peanuts are grown in accordance with a sheller contract (if not grown in accordance with the sheller contract, the peanuts will be valued at the price election issued by FCIC for the purposes of determining the production guarantee, premium, and indemnity).
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the sheller contract, you retain control of the acreage on which the peanuts are grown, you are at risk
of a production loss, and the sheller contract provides for delivery of the peanuts to the sheller or handler and for a stipulated base contract price.
(c) A peanut producer who is also a sheller or handler may establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors or officers of the sheller or handler must execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as a sheller contract. Such resolution will be considered a sheller contract under this policy; and
(3) Our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of a sheller contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that replanting is not practical.
(b) We will not insure any acreage:
(1) On which peanuts are grown using no-till or minimum tillage farming methods unless allowed by the Special Provisions or written agreement; or
(2) Which does not meet the rotation requirements, if any, contained in the Special Provisions.

# 10. Insurance Period
In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the date immediately following planting as follows:
(a) November 30 in all states except New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas; and
(b) December 31 in New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

# 11. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; or
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss contained in section 11(a) through (g) that occurs during the insurance period.

# 12. Replanting Payments
(a) A replanting payment is allowed as follows:
(1) In lieu of provisions in section 13 of the Basic Provisions that limit the amount of a replant payment to the actual cost of replanting, the amount of any replanting payment will be determined in accordance with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Except as specified in section 12(a)(1), you must comply with all requirements regarding replanting payments contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions; and
(3) The insured crop must be damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of:
(1) 20.0 percent of the production guarantee, multiplied by your price election, multiplied by your share; or
(2) $80.00 multiplied by your insured share.
(c) If there are different base contract prices or you also have insurable peanuts not grown under a contract:
(1) If the sheller contracts are for different types of peanuts or one type of peanut is grown under a sheller contract and another is not, replanting payments will be valued using the price election elected by you for the planted acreage, as applicable (For an example, you have two sheller contracts and the base contract price is $0.23 per pound for Runner type peanuts, then $0.23 per pound will be used for the value of any replanted Runner type peanut acreage. If the base contract price is $0.21 per pound for Spanish type peanuts, then $0.21 per pound will be used for the value of any replanted Spanish type peanut acreage.
(2) If the sheller contracts are for the same type of peanuts but they have different base contract prices:
(i) If the peanuts under each sheller contract are insured in separate optional units, each respective price election from each sheller contract will apply to each respective unit; or
(ii) If all or some of peanuts under both sheller contracts are insured in the same unit, then the replanted acreage will be prorated to each contract based on the number of acres needed to fulfill each contract (For example, if there are 20 acres in the unit and 10 were replanted, the production guarantee per acre for the unit is 2,000 pounds per acre, and the contract for $0.23 was for 25,000 pounds and the contract for $0.21 was for 15,000 pounds, then the acreage under the $0.23 contract constitutes 62.5 percent of the
acreage in the unit (25,000/40,000) and the other sheller contract 37.5 percent of the acreage (15,000/40,000). Of the 10 acres replanted, 6.25 acres (10 × .625) would be paid at the $0.23 price election and 3.75 acres (10 × .375) would be paid at the $0.21 price election).
(3) If the peanuts are not grown under a contract, the replanting payments will be valued using the price election as specified in the Special Provisions. If the unit has peanuts grown under a sheller contract and peanuts not grown under a sheller contract, the replanted acreage must be prorated between the contract and non-contract acreage by determining the acreage grown under a contract and the remaining acreage in the unit (For example, if there are 20 acres in the unit and 10 were replanted, the production guarantee per acre for the unit is 2,000 pounds per acre, there is a sheller contract for $0.23 for 25,000 pounds, the remaining peanuts are not grown under a sheller contract, and the price election in the Special Provisions is for $0.20. The peanuts under the sheller contract constitute 62.5 percent (25,000/40,000) of the acreage in the unit and remaining peanuts constitute 37.5 percent (40,000−25,000/40,000) of the acreage. Of the 10 acres replanted, 6.25 acres (10 × .625) would be paid with the liability based on the $0.23 price election and 3.75 acres (10 × .375) would be paid with the liability based on the $0.20 price election).
(d) When the crop is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable for an original planting, the liability on the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.
(e) Replanting payments will be calculated using your price election and production guarantee for the crop type that is replanted and insured. A revised acreage report will be required to reflect the replanted type, if applicable.

# 13. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
Representative samples are required in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions.

# 14. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production that are acceptable to us for any:
(1) Optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or
(2) Basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability for the harvested acreage for the unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the number of insured acres by the respective production guarantee (per acre) for peanuts insured under a sheller contract or not insured under a sheller contract, as applicable;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 14(b)(1) by the applicable price election for peanuts insured at the base contract price or the price election specified in the Special Provisions, as applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 14(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the production to count by the respective price election (If you have one or more sheller contracts, we will value your production to count by using your highest price election first and will continue in decreasing order to your lowest price election based on the amount of peanuts insured at each price election);
(5) Totaling the results of section 14(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result of section 14(b)(5) from the result of section 14(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 14(b)(6) by your share.
Example #1 (without a sheller contract):
You have 100 percent share in 25 acres of Valencia peanuts in the unit, with a production guarantee (per acre) of 2,000 pounds, the price election specified in the Special Provisions is $0.17 per pound, and your production to count is 43,000 pounds.
(1) 25 acres × 2,000 pounds = 50,000 pound guarantee;
(2) 50,000 pound guarantee × $0.17 price election specified in the Special Provisions = $8,500.00 guarantee;
(3) 43,000 pounds of production to count × $0.17 price election specified in the Special Provisions = $7,310.00;
(4) $8,500.00 guarantee−$7,310.00 = $1,190.00; and
(5) $1,190.00 × 1.000 = $1,190.00; Indemnity = $1,190.00.
Example #2 (with a sheller contract):
You have 100 percent share in 25 acres of Valencia peanuts in the unit, with a production guarantee (per acre) of 2,000 pounds. You have two sheller contracts, the first is for 25,000 pounds, price election (contract) is $0.23 per pound, and the second is for 10,000 pounds, price election (contract) is $0.21 per pound. The price election (non-contract) specified in the Special Provisions is $0.17 per pound, and your production to count is 43,000 pounds.
(1) 25 acres × 2,000 pounds = 50,000 pound guarantee;
(2) 25,000 pounds contracted × $0.23 price election (contract) = $5,750.00;
10,000 pounds contracted × $0.21 price election (contract) = $2,100.00;
50,000 pound guarantee−25,000 pounds contracted−10,000 pounds contracted = 15,000 pounds not contracted;
15,000 pounds not contracted × $0.17 price election (non-contract) specified in the Special Provisions = $2,550.00;
(3) $5,750.00 + $2,100.00 + $2,550.00 = $10,400.00 guarantee;
(4) 43,000 pounds of production to count:
25,000 pounds contracted × $0.23 price election (contract) = $5,750.00;
10,000 pounds contracted × $0.21 price election (contract) = $2,100.00;
43,000 pounds of production to count−25,000 pounds contracted (at $0.23 per pound)−10,000 pounds contracted (at $0.21 per pound) = 8,000 pounds;
8,000 pounds × $0.17 price election (non-contract) specified in the Special Provisions = $1,360.00;
(5) $5,750.00 + $2,100.00 + $1,360.00 = $9,210.00;
(6) $10,400.00 guarantee−$9,210.00 = $1,190.00; and
(7) $1,190.00 × 1.000 = $1,190.00;
Indemnity = $1,190.00.
(c) The total production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include all appraised and harvested production.
(d) All appraised production will include:
(1) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(i) That is abandoned;
(ii) Put to another use without our consent;
(iii) Damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(iv) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us.
(2) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(3) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 14(e));
(4) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for the acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(i) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(ii) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(5) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(e) Mature peanuts may be adjusted for quality when production has been damaged by an insured cause of loss.
(1) To enable us to determine the number of pounds, price per pound, and the quality of production for any peanuts that qualify for quality adjustment, we must be given the opportunity to have such peanuts inspected and graded before you dispose of them.
(2) If you dispose of any production without giving us the opportunity to have the peanuts inspected and graded, the gross weight of such production will be used in determining total production to count unless you submit a marketing record satisfactory to us which clearly shows the number of pounds, price per pound, and quality of such peanuts.
(3) Such production to count will be reduced if the price per pound received for damaged peanuts is less than 85 percent of the price election by:
(i) Dividing the price per pound for the damaged peanuts, as determined by us in accordance with section 14(e)(1), received for the insured type of peanuts by the applicable price election; and
(ii) Multiplying this result by the number of pounds of such production.

# 15. Prevented Planting
(a) Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 17(i) of the Basic Provisions, if there are different base contract prices or you also have insurable peanuts not grown under a contract:
(1) If the sheller contracts are for different types of peanuts or one type of peanut is grown under a sheller contract and another is not, the liability will be determined using the price election elected by you for planted acreage, as applicable (For an example, you have two sheller contracts and the base contract price is $0.23 per pound for Runner type peanuts, then $0.23 per pound will be used for the value of any prevented planting Runner type peanut acreage. If the base contract price is $0.21 per pound for Spanish type peanuts, then $0.21 per pound will be used for the value of any prevented planting Spanish type peanut acreage.
(2) If the sheller contracts are for the same type of peanuts but they have different base contract prices:
(i) If the peanuts grown under each sheller contract are insured in separate optional units, the liability will be determined using each respective price election for the prevented planting acreage in each respective unit; or
(ii) If all or some of the peanuts grown under the sheller contracts are insured in the same unit, then the liability for each contract must be determined separately using the respective price election and the number of eligible prevented planting acres to which the liability applies and will be determined by prorating prevented planting acreage to each contract based on the number of acres needed to fulfill each contract (For example, if there are 20 acres in the unit and 10 were prevented from planting, the production guarantee per acre for the unit is 2,000 pounds per acre, and the contract for $0.23 was for 25,000 pounds and the contract for $0.21 was for 15,000 pounds, then the acreage under the $0.23 contract constitutes 62.5 percent (25,000/40,000) of the acreage in the unit and the other contract 37.5 percent (15,000/40,000) of the acreage. Of the 10 acres prevented from planting, 6.25 acres (10 × .625) would be paid with the liability based on the $0.23 price election and 3.75 acres (10 × .375) would be paid with the liability based on the $0.21 price election).
(3) If the peanuts are not grown under a contract, the liability for such peanuts will be based on the price election as specified in the Special Provisions. If the unit has peanuts grown under a sheller contract and peanuts not grown under a sheller contract, the eligible prevented planting acreage must be determined by determining the acreage grown under a contract and the remaining acreage in the unit (For example, if there are 20 acres in the unit and 10 were prevented from planting, the production guarantee per acre for the unit is 2,000 pounds per acre, there is a sheller contract for $0.23 for 25,000 pounds, the remaining peanuts are not grown under a sheller contract, and the price election in the Special Provisions is for $0.20. The peanuts under the sheller contract constitute 62.5 percent (25,000/40,000) of the acreage in the unit and remaining peanuts constitute 37.5 percent (40,000−25,000/40,000) of the acreage. Of the 10 acres prevented from planting, 6.25 acres (10 × .625) would be paid with the liability based on the $0.23 price election and 3.75 acres (10 × .375) would be paid with the liability based on the $0.20 price election).
[71 FR 55997, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 84399, Nov. 23, 2016]
§ 457.135
Onion crop insurance provisions.
The Onion Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Onion Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Damaged onion production.
Storage type onions that do not grade U.S. No. 1 or do not satisfy any other standards that may be contained in the Special Provisions; or non-storage type onions which do not satisfy standards contained in any applicable marketing order or other standards that may be contained in the Special Provisions.
Direct seeded.
Onions planted by placing onion seed by machine or by hand at the correct depth, into a seedbed that has been properly prepared for the planting method and production practice.
Harvest.
Removal of the onions from the field after topping and lifting or digging.
Hundredweight.
100 pounds avoirdupois.
Lifting or digging.
A pre-harvest process in which the onion roots are severed from the soil and the onion bulbs laid on the surface of the soil for drying in the field.
Non-storage onions.
Onions of a Bermuda, Granex, or Grano variety, or hybrids developed from these varieties, that are harvested as a bulb and dried only a short time, and consequently have a higher moisture content. They are thinner skinned, contain a higher sugar content, and are milder in flavor than storage onions. Due to a higher moisture and sugar content, they are subject to deterioration both on the surface and internally if not used shortly after harvest.
Onion production.
Onions of recoverable size and condition, with excess dirt and foliage material removed and that are not considered damaged onion production.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, onions, including sets, must be direct seeded in rows or transplanted in rows.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in buying and processing onions, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing onions required by the State in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept
and process contracted onions within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
A written agreement between the producer and a processor, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow onions of the types designated in the Special Provisions and to deliver the onion production to the processor;
(b) The processor's commitment to purchase all the production from a specified number of acres or the specified quantity of onion production stated in the processor contract; and
(c) The price that will be paid for the production.
Production guarantee (per acre).
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the production guarantee will be determined by stage as follows:
(a) First stage production guarantee—Forty-five percent (45%) of the final stage production guarantee for direct seeded and transplanted storage and non-storage onions, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(b) Second stage production guarantee—Seventy percent (70%) of the final stage production guarantee for direct seeded storage onions and 60 percent (60%) of the final stage production guarantee for transplanted storage onions and all non-storage onions, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(c) Final stage production guarantee—The quantity of onions (in hundredweight) determined by multiplying the approved yield per acre by the coverage level percentage you elect.
Sets.
Onion bulbs that are planted by hand or by machine.
Storage onions.
Onions, other than a Bermuda, Granex, or Grano variety, or hybrids developed from these varieties, that are harvested as a bulb and dried to a lower moisture content, are firmer, have more outer layers of paper-like skin, and are darker in color than non-storage onions. They are more pungent, have a lower sugar content, and can be stored for several months under proper conditions prior to use without deterioration.
Topping.
A pre-harvest process to initiate curing, in which onion foliage is removed or broken.
Transplanted.
Onions planted by placing of the onion plant or sets, by machine or by hand at the correct depth, into a seedbed that has been properly prepared for the planting method and production practice.

# 2. Unit Division
In addition to the requirements of section 34 of the Basic Provisions, optional units may be established by type, if separate types are designated in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), you may select only one price election for all the onions in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each onion type designated in the Special Provisions. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) Your production guarantee progresses, in stages, to the final stage production guarantee. Stages will be determined on an acre basis. At least 75 percent (75%) of the plants on such acreage must be at the same stage to qualify for the first and second stages. The stages are as follows:
(1) First stage extends:
(i) For direct seeded storage and non-storage onions, from planting until the emergence of the fourth leaf; and
(ii) For transplanted storage and non-storage onions, from transplanting of onion plants or sets through the 30th day after transplanting.
(2) Second stage extends:
(i) For direct seeded storage and non-storage onions, from the emergence of the fourth leaf until eligible for the final stage; and
(ii) For transplanted storage and non-storage onions, from the 31st day after transplanting of onion plants or sets until eligible for the final stage.
(3) Final stage extends from the completion of topping and lifting or digging on the acreage until the end of the insurance period.
(c) Any acreage of onions damaged in the first or second stage, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would not normally further care for the onions, will have a production guarantee for indemnity purposes, based on the stage in which the damage occurred, even if you continue to care for the damaged onions.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is:
(a) June 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with an August 31, September 30, or November 30 cancellation date;
(b) November 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a February 1 cancellation date; or
(c) As designated in the Special Provisions.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are as follows, unless otherwise designated in the Special Provisions:
State
county
Cancellation date
Termination
date
Arizona; Georgia; Uvalde County, Texas, and all Texas Counties lying south thereof
August 31
August 31.
Umatilla County, Oregon; and Walla Walla County, Washington
August 31
September 30.
All California Counties, except Lassen, Modoc, and Shasta
September 30
September 30.
All other states and counties
February 1
February 1.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, if the Special Provisions require a processor contract to insure your onions, you must provide a copy of all your processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Annual Premium
In lieu of the provisions of section 7(c) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the annual premium amount is computed by multiplying the final stage production guarantee by the price election, the premium rate, the insured acreage, your share at the time of planting, and any applicable premium adjustment factors contained in the actuarial documents.

# 8. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the storage and non-storage onions (excluding green (bunch) or seed onions, chives, garlic, leeks, shallots, and scallions) in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are planted for harvest as either storage onions or non-storage onions;
(c) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(1) Interplanted with another crop, unless the onions are interplanted with a windbreak crop and the windbreak crop is destroyed within 70 days after completion of seeding or transplanting; or
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure any acreage of the insured crop that:
(a) Was planted the previous year to storage or non-storage onions, green (bunch) onions, seed onions, chives, garlic, leeks, shallots, or scallions unless different rotation requirements are designated in the Special Provisions or a written agreement insures such acreage; or
(b) Is damaged before the final planting date to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop and is not replanted, unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.

# 10. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the acreage must be planted on or before the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions except as allowed in section 16 of the Basic Provisions.
(b) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, unless otherwise designated in the Special Provisions, the insurance period ends at the earliest of:
(1) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period as follows:
(i) May 20 for 1015 Super Sweets, and any other non-storage onions in Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy Counties, Texas;
(ii) June 1 for Vidalia, and any other non-storage onions planted in the state of Georgia;
(iii) June 30 for all storage and non-storage onions in Arizona;
(iv) July 15 for 1015 Super Sweets, and any other non-storage onions for all Texas counties except Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy;
(v) July 31 for fall planted non-storage onions in Oregon and Washington;
(vi) August 31 for all non-storage onions not otherwise specified; and
(vii) October 15 for all storage onions not otherwise specified; or
(2) In addition to the requirements of section 11(b) of the Basic Provisions, fourteen days after lifting or digging.

# 11. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife, unless control measures have not been taken;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss not insured against as listed in section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against any loss of production due to damage that occurs or becomes evident after the end of the insurance period, including, but not limited to, loss of production that occurs after onions have been placed in storage.

# 12. Replanting Payment
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), a replanting payment is allowed if the crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the final stage production guarantee for the acreage and we determine that it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be your actual cost for replanting, but will not exceed the lesser of:
(1) 7 percent of the final stage production guarantee multiplied by your price election for the type originally planted and by your insured share; or
(2) 18 hundredweight multiplied by your price election for the type originally planted and by your insured share.
(c) When onions are replanted using a practice that is uninsurable as an original planting, the liability for the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.

# 13. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, any representative samples of the crop that may be required must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be topped, lifted, dug, harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed.
(b) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count that is not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.

# 14. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 14(b)(1) by the respective price election;
(3) Totaling the results in section 14(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted (see section 14(c)) by the respective price elections you chose;
(5) Totaling the results of section 14(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result in section 14(b)(5) from the result in 14(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 14(b)(6) by your share.
For Example:
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of a unit of transplanted storage onions with a production guarantee of 200 hundredweight per acre, and you select 100 percent of the price election of $20.00 per hundredweight. Your crop suffers a covered cause of loss on 25 acres during the second stage which has a second stage production guarantee of 60 percent of the final stage production guarantee which equals 120 hundredweight per acre. The appraised production on the 25 acres was 2,500 hundredweight of onion production. Your harvested onion production on the remaining 75 acres is 16,000 hundredweight of harvested production to count. Your indemnity will be calculated as follows:
(1) 25 acres × 120 hundredweight (200 × .60) second stage production guarantee = 3,000 hundredweight, and 75 acres × 200 hundredweight final stage production guarantee = 15,000 hundredweight;
(2) 3,000 hundredweight second stage production guarantee × $20.00 price election = $60,000 value of second stage production guarantee, and 15,000 hundredweight final stage production guarantee × $20.00 price election = $300,000 value of final stage production guarantee;
(3) $60,000 value of second stage production guarantee + $300,000 value of final stage production guarantee = $360,000 total value of production guarantee;
(4) 500 hundredweight second stage production to count (from step 4 of the section 14(c)(1)(iv) example) × $20.00 price election = $10,000 value of second stage production to count, and 16,000 hundredweight final stage production to count × $20.00 price election = $320,000 value of final stage production to count;
(5) $10,000 value of second stage production to count + $320,000 value of final stage production to count = $330,000 total value of production to count;
(6) $360,000 total value of production guarantee − $330,000 total value of production to count = $30,000 value of loss; and
(7) $30,000 × 100 percent share = $30,000 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production (in hundredweight) to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is direct marketed to consumers if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 13;
(C) Put to another use without our consent;
(D) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(E) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested onion production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted based on the percent of damaged onion production in accordance with section 14(d));
(iv) For acreage that does not qualify for the final stage production guarantee, and is not subject to section 14 (c)(1)(i) and (ii), the appraised production is reduced by the difference between the first or second stage (as applicable) and the final stage production guarantee; and
For Example:
You have 100 acres of a unit of transplanted storage onions with a production guarantee of 200 hundredweight per acre. Your crop suffers a covered cause of loss on 25 acres during the second stage which has a second stage production guarantee of 60 percent of the final stage production guarantee. The appraised production on the 25 acres was 2,500 hundredweight of onion production. Your second stage production to count on the 25 acres will be calculated as follows:
(1) 25 acres × 200 hundredweight final stage production guarantee = 5,000 hundredweight final stage production guarantee,
(2) 5,000 hundredweight final stage production guarantee × 60 percent second stage production guarantee = 3,000 hundredweight second stage production guarantee,
(3) 5,000 hundredweight final stage production guarantee −3,000 hundredweight second stage production guarantee = 2,000 hundredweight difference between second stage and final stage production guarantee, and
(4) 2,500 hundredweight appraised −2,000 hundredweight difference = 500 hundredweight second stage production to count (for step 4 of the section 14(b) example).
(v) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end if you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop.
(vi) If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us. (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested onion production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested onion production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested.
(2) All harvested onion production from the insurable acreage.
(d) If the damage to harvested or unharvested onion production exceeds the percentage shown in the Special Provisions for the type, no production will be counted for that unit or portion of a unit unless such damaged onion production from that acreage is sold. If sold, the hundredweight of production to be counted will be adjusted by dividing the price received for the damaged onion production by the price election and multiplying the resulting factor times the hundredweight sold.
(e) The extent of any damaged onion production must be determined not later than the time onions are placed in storage if the production is stored prior to sale, or the date the onions are delivered to a packer, processor, or other handler if production is not stored.

# 15. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your final stage production guarantee for timely planted acreage. Additional
prevented planting coverage levels are not available for onions.
[62 FR 28613, May 27, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65173, Dec. 10, 1997; 64 FR 33385, June 23, 1999; 75 FR 15887, Mar. 30, 2010; 77 FR 13965, Mar. 8, 2012; 81 FR 84399, Nov. 23, 2016; 87 FR 38895, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52853, Aug. 30, 2022]
§ 457.136
Tobacco crop insurance provisions.
The Tobacco Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2017 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
Reinsured policies:

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:
Tobacco Crop Insurance Provisions

# 1. Definitions.
Average value.
For appraised production, the value of such production divided by the appraised pounds for the tobacco types. For harvested production, the value of such production divided by the harvested pounds for the tobacco type.
Basic unit.
In lieu of the definition in the Basic Provisions, a basic unit is all insurable acreage of an insurable type of tobacco in the county in which you have a share on the date of planting for the crop year and that is indentified by a single FSA farm serial number at the time insurance first attaches under these provisions for the crop year.
Harvest.
Cutting or priming and removing all insured tobacco from the unit.
Hydroponic plants.
Seedlings grown in liquid nutrient solutions.
Late planting period.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the period that begins the day after the final planting date for the insured crop and ends 15 days after the final planting date, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic provisions, land in which tobacco seedlings, including hydroponic plants, have been transplanted by hand or machine from the tobacco bed to the field.
Pound.
Sixteen ounces avoirdupois.
Priming.
A method of harvesting tobacco by which one or more leaves are removed from the stalk as they mature.
Tobacco bed.
An area protected from adverse weather in which tobacco seeds are sown and seedlings are grown until transplanted into the tobacco field by hand or machine.
Tobacco types.
Insurable tobacco as shown on the Special Provisions of Insurance.

# 2. Unit Division.
A basic unit will be determined in accordance with the definition of basic unit contained in section 1 of these Crop Provisions. Optional and enterprise units may be allowed by the Special Provisions of Insurance.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities.
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you must select only one price election percentage and coverage level for each tobacco type designated in the Special Provisions of Insurance that you elect to insure.

# 4. Contract Changes.
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates.
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage.
In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of any written lease agreement, if applicable, between you and any landlord or tenant. The written lease agreement must:
(1) Identify all other persons sharing in the crop; and
(2) Be submitted to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop.
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the insured crop will be each tobacco type you elect to insure and for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That meets all rotation requirements on the Special Provisions of Insurance.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if you retain control of the acreage on which the tobacco is grown and you are at risk of loss.

# 8. Insurable Acreage.
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any acreage that is:
(a) Planted in any manner other than as provided in the definition of “planted acreage” in section 1 of these Crop Provisions, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions of Insurance or by written agreement; or
(b) Damaged before the final planting date to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care
for the tobacco crop, unless such crop is replanted or we agree that replanting is not practical.

# 9. Insurance Period.
In lieu of the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, coverage ends at the earlier of:
(a) Total destruction of the tobacco on the unit;
(b) Removal of the tobacco from the unit where grown, except for curing, grading, and packing;
(c) Abandonment of the crop on the unit;
(d) Final adjustment of the loss on the unit; or
(e) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period, which is the date immediately following planting and designated by tobacco types and states (or as otherwise stated on the Special Provisions of Insurance) as follows:
(i) Flue cured—November 30 in North Carolina and Virginia;
(ii) Flue cured—October 31 in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina;
(iii) Burley—February 28 in all states;
(iv) Dark air cured—March 15 in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia;
(v) Fire cured—April 15 in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia;
(vi) Cigar Binder, Cigar Filler, and Cigar Wrapper—April 30 in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin; and
(vii) Maryland type—May 15 in Maryland and Pennsylvania.

# 10. Causes of Loss.
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; or
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply due to a cause of loss specified in sections 10(a) through (g) that also occurs during the insurance period.

# 11. Duties In The Event of Damage or Loss.
(a) In accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must maintain representative samples of each unharvested tobacco crop (type) for our inspection. The representative samples must be at least 5 feet wide (at least two rows), and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be harvested or destroyed until after our inspection.
(b) If you have filed a notice of damage, you must leave all tobacco stalks and stubble in the unit intact for our inspection. The stalks and stubble must not be destroyed until we give you written consent to do so or until 30 days after the end of the insurance period, whichever is earlier.

# 12. Settlement of Claim.
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the number of insured acres by your applicable production guarantee (per acre);
(2) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(1) by your price election;
(3) Multiplying the total production to count determined in section 12(c) by your price election;
(4) Subtracting the result of section 12(b)(3) from the result of section 12(b)(2); and
(5) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(4) by your share.
For example:
You have 100 percent share in a unit to produce 3,000 pounds of Burley tobacco, a production guarantee of 1,950 pounds (APH yield of 3,000 pounds × .65 coverage level), you plant 1.0 acre, your price election is $1.50 per pound, and your production to count is 500 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 1.0 acre × 1,950 pounds production guarantee = 1,950 pounds;
(2) 1,950 pounds × $1.50 price election = $2,925.00 value of the production guarantee;
(3) 500 pounds production to count × $1.50 price election = $750.00 value of the production to count;
(4) $2,925.00 value of the production guarantee—$750.00 value of the production to count = $2,175.00; and
(5) $2,175.00 × 1.000 share = $2,175.00 indemnity.
(c) The total production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes;
(D) For which you fail to provide records of production, that are acceptable to us; or
(E) For any type of tobacco when the stalks and stubble have been destroyed without our consent under section 11(b);
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes.
(iii) Potential production on insured acreage you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count.); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from insurable acreage.
(d) Once we agree the current year's tobacco has no average value due to an insured cause of loss, you must destroy it, and it will not be considered production to count. If you refuse to destroy such tobacco, we will include it as production to count and value it at the applicable price election.
(e) In lieu of section 15(b) of the Basic Provisions, if we have conducted an appraisal of your insured crop and we determine that the harvested production you report is inconsistent with the appraised production and you cannot prove that an insurable cause of loss occurred between the appraisal and the end of the insurance period that can account for the reduction in production, your claim will be settled based on the appraised production on insured acreage, even if you have harvested the acreage. If we settle your claim based on your appraised production, section 12(f) regarding quality adjustment is not applicable.
(f) Mature tobacco may be adjusted for quality deficiencies when production has been damaged by insurable causes.
(1) You must contact us before any tobacco is disposed of so we can inspect the tobacco to determine the extent of the damage.
(2) Our inspection will be used to determine whether the average value is reasonable. Based on amount of damage determined during the inspection, if the average value is:
(i) Reasonable, such average value will be used to determine the quality adjustment in section 12(f)(5);
(ii) Unreasonable, we may adjust the average value used to calculate the quality adjustment in section 12(f)(5).
(3) If you dispose of any production without giving us the opportunity to have the tobacco inspected, you will not receive a quality adjustment for such tobacco, regardless of the average value of the production.
(4) Production to count will only be reduced if the average value for damaged tobacco is less than 75 percent of your tobacco price election. You must provide us with records that are acceptable to us which clearly shows the number of pounds, price per pound, and the quality of such tobacco.
(5) Any reduction in the production to count will be determined by:
(i) Dividing the average value per pound as determined by us in accordance with section 12(f)(2) of these Crop Provisions by your applicable price election; and
(ii) Multiplying this result by the number of pounds of damaged production.

# 13. Late Planting
In lieu of late planting provisions in the Basic Provisions regarding acreage initially planted after the final planting date, insurance will be provided for acreage planted to the insured crop after the final planting date as follows:
(a) The production guarantee (per acre) for acreage planted during the late planting period will be reduced by:
(1) One percent per day for the 1st through the 10th day; and
(2) Two percent per day for the 11th through the 15th day;
(b) The premium amount for insurable acreage planted to the insured crop after the final planting date will be the same as that for timely planted acreage. If the amount of premium you are required to pay (gross premium less our subsidy) for acreage planted after the final planting date exceeds the liability on such acreage, coverage for those acres will not be provided (no premium will be due and no indemnity will be paid for such acreage).

# 14. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. Additional prevented planting coverage levels are not available for tobacco.
[74 FR 13059, Mar. 26, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 84399, Nov. 23, 2016]
§ 457.137
Green pea crop insurance provisions.
The Green Pea Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
United States Department of Agriculture
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
Green Pea Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Green Pea Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# Green Pea Crop Provisions
If a conflict exists among the policy provisions, the order of priority is as follows: (1) The Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, if applicable; (2) the Special Provisions; (3) these Crop Provisions; and (4) the Basic Provisions with (1) controlling (2), etc.

# 1. Definitions
Base contract price.
The price stipulated in the processor contract for the tenderometer reading, grade factor, or sieve size that is designated in the Special Provisions, if applicable, without regard to discounts or incentives that may apply.
Bypassed acreage.
Land on which production is ready for harvest but the processor elects not to accept such production so it is not harvested.
Combining
(
vining
). Separating pods from the vines and, in the case of shell peas, separating the peas from the pod for delivery to the processor.
Dry peas.
Green peas that have matured to the dry form for use as food, feed, or seed.
Good farming practices.
In addition to the definition of “good farming practices” in the Basic Provisions, the cultural practices required by the processor contract.
Green peas.
Shell type and pod type peas that are grown under a processor contract to be canned or frozen and sold for human consumption.
Harvest.
Combining (vining) of the peas.
Nurse crop
(
companion crop
). A crop planted into the same acreage as another crop, that is intended to be harvested separately, and which is planted to improve growing conditions for the crop with which it is grown.
Peas.
Green or dry peas.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition in the Basic Provisions, peas must initially be placed in rows to be considered planted. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.
Pod type.
Green peas genetically developed to be eaten without shelling (e.g., snap peas, snow peas, and Chinese peas).
Practical to replant.
In addition to the definition of “practical to replant” in the Basic Provisions, practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors including, but not limited to, moisture availability, and marketing window, that replanting the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant unless the replanted acreage can produce at least 75 percent of the approved yield, and the processor agrees in writing that it will accept the production from the replanted acreage.
Price election.
In lieu of the definition of “price election” in the Basic Provisions, price election is defined as the price per pound stated in the processor contract (contracted price) for the tenderometer reading, grade factor, or sieve size contained in the Special Provisions.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in canning or freezing green peas for human consumption, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing green peas required by the state in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process contracted green peas within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
A written contract between the producer and a processor, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow green peas, and to deliver the green pea production to the processor;
(b) The processor's commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processor contract; and
(c) A base contract price.
Multiple contracts with the same processor that specify amounts of production will be considered as a single processor contract unless the contracts are for different types of green peas.
Production guarantee (per acre).
The number of pounds determined by multiplying the approved actual production history yield per acre by the coverage level percentage you elect. For shell type peas, the weight will be determined after shelling.
Shell type.
Green peas genetically developed to be shelled prior to eating, canning or freezing.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) For any processor contract that stipulates the amount of production to be delivered:
(1) In lieu of the definition in the Basic Provisions, a basic unit will consist of all acreage planted to the insured crop in the
county that will be used to fulfill contracts with each processor;
(i) There will be no more than one basic unit for all production contracted with each processor contract;
(ii) In accordance with section 12, all production from any basic unit in excess of the amount under contract will be included as production to count if such production is applied to any other basic unit for which the contracted amount has not been fulfilled; and
(2) Optional units may be established by:
(i) Organic and non-organic farming practices as provided in Section 34(c)(3) of the Basic Provisions; or
(ii) Shell type and pod type for green peas if the shell type acreage does not continue into the pod type acreage in the same rows or planting pattern.
(b) For any processor contract that stipulates the number of acres to be planted, in addition to or instead of, establishing optional units as provided in Section 34(c) of the Basic Provisions, optional units may be established by the shell type and pod type for green peas if the shell type acreage does not continue into the pod type acreage in the same rows or planting pattern.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the green peas in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type. The percentage of the maximum price election you choose for one type will be applicable to all other types insured under this policy.
(b) The appraised production from bypassed acreage that could have been accepted by the processor will be included when determining your approved yield.
(c) Acreage that is bypassed because it was damaged by an insurable cause of loss will be considered to have a zero yield when determining your approved yield.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
Cancellation and Termination
State
Dates
Delaware and Maryland
February 15.
All other states
March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of all processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the shell type and pod type green peas in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are grown under, and in accordance with, the requirements of a processor contract executed on or before the acreage reporting date and are not excluded from the processor contract at any time during the crop year; and
(3) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Interplanted with another crop;
(ii) Planted into an established grass or legume; or
(iii) Planted as a nurse crop.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the processor contract, you retain control of the acreage on which the green peas are grown, you are at risk of loss, and the processor contract provides for delivery of green peas under specified conditions and at a stipulated base contract price.
(c) A commercial green pea producer who is also a processor may establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors or officers of the processor must execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as an acceptable processor contract. Such resolution will be considered a processor contract under this policy; and
(3) Our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of a processor contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Any acreage of the insured crop that is damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant; and
(b) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements, if applicable, contained in the Special Provisions.

# 9. Insurance Period
In lieu of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, regarding the end of the insurance period, insurance ceases at the earlier of:
(a) The date the green peas:
(1) Were destroyed;
(2) Should have been harvested but were not harvested;
(3) Were abandoned; or
(4) Were harvested;
(b) The date you harvest sufficient production to fulfill your processor contract if the processor contract stipulates a specific amount of production to be delivered;
(c) Final adjustment of a loss; or
(d) September 15 of the calendar year in which the insured green peas would normally be harvested; or
(e) September 30 of the calendar year in which the insured peas would normally be harvested if you provide notice to us that the insured crop will be harvested as dry peas (see section 11(d)).

# 10. Causes of Loss
In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions, including:
(i) Excessive moisture that prevents harvesting equipment from entering the field or that prevents the timely operation of harvesting equipment; and
(ii) Abnormally hot or cold temperatures that cause an unexpected number of acres over a large producing area to be ready for harvest at the same time, affecting the timely harvest of a large number of such acres or the processing of such production is beyond the capacity of the processor, either of which causes the acreage to be bypassed.
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease but only on acreage not planted to peas the previous crop year. (In certain instances, in the Special Provisions or in a written agreement, acreage planted to peas the previous year may be covered. Damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures is not covered);
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss in section 10(a)(1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded by section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any loss of production due to:
(1) Bypassed acreage because of:
(i) The breakdown or non-operation of equipment or facilities; or
(ii) The availability of a crop insurance payment. We may deny any indemnity immediately in such circumstance or, if an indemnity has been paid, require you to repay it to us with interest at any time acreage was bypassed due to the availability of a crop insurance payment or;
(2) Your failure to follow the requirements contained in the processor contract.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the notices required by section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must give us notice:
(a) Not later than 48 hours after:
(1) Total destruction of the green peas on the unit; or
(2) Discontinuance of harvest on a unit on which unharvested production remains.
(b) Within 3 days after the date harvest should have started on any acreage that will not be harvested unless we have previously released the acreage. You must also provide acceptable documentation of the reason the acreage was bypassed. Failure to provide such documentation will result in our determination that the acreage was bypassed due to an uninsured cause of loss. If the crop will not be harvested and you wish to destroy the crop, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop for our inspection. The samples must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in each unit. The samples must not be destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after notice is given to us;
(c) At least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, or immediately if damage is discovered during the 15-day period or during harvest, so that we may inspect any damaged production. If you fail to notify us and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, we will consider all such production to be undamaged and include it as production to count. You are not required to delay harvest; and
(d) Prior to the time the green peas would normally be harvested if you intend to harvest the green peas as dry peas.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate, acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee, by type if applicable;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election, by type if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(2) if there are more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the total production to count (see section 12(c)), for each type if applicable, by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(4) if there are more than one type;
(6) Subtracting the results of section 12(b)(4) from the results of section 12(b)(2) if there is only one type or subtracting the results of section 12(b)(5) from the result of section 12(b)(3) if there are more than one type; and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(6) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of shell type green peas in the unit, with a guarantee of 4,000 pounds per acre and a price election of $0.15 per pound. You are only able to harvest 200,000 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 4,000 pounds = 400,000 pounds guarantee;
(2) 400,000 pounds × $0.15 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) 200,000 pounds × $0.15 price election = $30,000.00 value of production to count;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) $60,000.00−$30,000.00 = $30,000.00 loss; and
(7) $30,000.00 × 100 percent = $30,000.00 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of pod type green peas in the same unit, with a guarantee of 5,000 pounds per acre and a price election of $0.15 per pound. You are only able to harvest 450,000 pounds. Your total indemnity for both shell type and pod type green peas would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 4,000 pounds = 400,000 pounds guarantee for the shell type, and 100 acres × 5,000 pounds = 500,000 pounds guarantee for the pod type;
(2) 400,000 pounds guarantee × $0.15 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee for the shell type, and 500,000 pounds guarantee × $0.15 price election = $75,000.00 value of guarantee for the pod type;
(3) $60,000.00 + $75,000.00 = $135,000.00 total value of guarantee;
(4) 200,000 pounds × $0.15 price election = $30,000.00 value of production to count for the shell type; and 450,000 pounds × $0.15 = $67,500.00 value of production to count for the pod type;
(5) $30,000.00 + $67,500.00 = $97,500.00 total value of production to count;
(6) $135,000.00—$97,500.00 = $37,500.00 loss; and
(7) $37,500.00 loss × 100 percent = $37,500.00 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production to count, specified in pounds, from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes or;
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us.
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes.
(iii) Production on acreage that is bypassed unless the acreage was bypassed due to an insured cause of loss which resulted in production which would not be acceptable under the terms of the processor contract.
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested.
(2) All harvested green pea production from the insurable acreage. The amount of such production will be determined by dividing the dollar amount paid, payable, or which should have been paid under the terms of the
processor contract for the quality and quantity of the peas delivered to the processor by the base contract price per pound;
(3) All harvested green pea production from any of your other insurable units that have been used to fulfill your processor contract for this unit; and
(4) All dry pea production from the insurable acreage if you gave notice in accordance with section 11(d) for any acreage you intended to harvest as dry peas. The harvested or appraised dry pea production will be multiplied by 1.667 for shell types and 3.000 for pod types to determine the green pea production equivalent. No adjustment for quality deficiencies will be allowed for dry pea production.

# 13. Late Planting
A late planting period is not applicable to green peas unless allowed by the Special Provisions and you provide written approval from the processor by the acreage reporting date that it will accept the production from the late planted acres when it is expected to be ready for harvest.

# 14. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 61903, Nov. 20, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65173, Dec. 10, 1997; 76 FR 4804, Jan. 27, 2011; 81 FR 84399, Nov. 23, 2016; 89 FR 93467, Nov. 27, 2024; 89 FR 105381, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 457.138
Grape crop insurance provisions.
The grape crop insurance provisions for the 2010 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Grape Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Graft.
To unite a shoot or bud (scion) with a rootstock or an existing vine in accordance with recommended practices to form a living union.
Harvest.
Removing the mature grapes from the vines either by hand or machine.
Interplanted.
Acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Set out.
Physically planting the grape plants in the vineyard.
Ton.
Two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.
Type.
A category of grapes (one or more varieties) identified as a type in the Special Provisions.
Variety.
A kind of grape that is distinguished from any other by unique characteristics such as, but not limited to, size, color, skin thickness, acidity, flavors and aromas. In Arizona and California each variety is identified as a separate type in the Special Provisions except for type 095 (other varieties). Type 095 is used to designate varieties not listed as a separate type.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) In Arizona and California only:
(1) A basic unit as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions will be divided into additional basic units by each variety that you insure; and
(2) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that provide for optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm serial number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable. Unless otherwise allowed by written agreement, optional units may only be established if each optional unit is located on non-contiguous land or grown and insured under an organic farming practice.
(b) In all states except Arizona and California, in addition to, or instead of, establishing optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm serial number and by irrigated and non-irrigated acreage and for acreage grown and insured under an organic farming practice as provided in the unit division provisions contained in the Basic Provisions, a separate optional unit may be established if each optional unit:
(1) Is located on non-contiguous land; or
(2) Consists of a separate type when separate types are specified in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) In Arizona and California, you may select only one coverage level and price election for each grape variety you elect to insure in the county.
(b) In all states except Arizona and California, you may select only one coverage level and price election for each grape type in the county as specified in the Special Provisions. The coverage level you choose for each grape type is not required to have the same percentage relationship. The price election you choose for each type is not required
to have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 75 percent coverage level and 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you may choose 65 percent coverage level and 75 percent of the maximum price election for another type. If you elect the Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) level of insurance for any grape type, the CAT level of coverage will be applicable to all insured grape acreage in the county.
(c) In all states except Arizona and California, if you acquire a share in any grape acreage after you submit your application, such acreage is insurable under the terms of the policy and you did not include the grape type on your application, we will assign the following:
(1) A coverage level equal to the lowest coverage level you selected for any other grape type: and
(2) A price election percentage equal to the type with the lowest coverage level you selected, if you elected additional coverage; or 55 percent of the maximum price election, if you elected CAT.
(d) In addition to the definition of “price election” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, a price election based on the price contained in your grape contract is allowed if provided by the Special Provisions. In the event any contract requires the use of a cultural practice that will reduce the amount of production from any insured acreage, your approved yield will be adjusted in accordance with section 3(f) and (g) to reflect the reduced production potential.
(e) In Arizona and California only, if the Special Provisions do not provide a price election for a specific variety you wish to insure, you may apply for a written agreement to establish a price election. Your application for the written agreement must include:
(1) The number of tons sold for at least the two most recent crop years; and
(2) The price received for all production of the grape variety in the years for which production records are provided.
(f) You must report by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type or variety, if applicable:
(1) Any damage, removal of bearing vines, change in practices or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing vines on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the vines and the planting pattern; and
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage is changed:
(i) The age of the interplanted crop, and the grape type or variety, if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(g) We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee, based on our estimate of the effect on yield potential of any of the items listed in section 3(f)(1) through (4). If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your production guarantee at any time we become aware of the circumstance.
(h) Your request to increase the coverage level or price election percentage will not be accepted if a cause of loss that could or would reduce the yield of the insured crop is evident when your request is made.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is October 31 preceding the cancellation date for Arizona and California and August 31 preceding the cancellation date for all other states.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are January 31 in Arizona and California, and November 20 for all other states.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must report your acreage:
(a) In Arizona and California, by each grape variety you insure; or
(b) In all other states, by each grape type.

# 7. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be any insurable variety that you elect to insure in Arizona and California, or in all other states all insurable types, in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown for wine, juice, raisins, or canning (if such grapes are put to another use (
i.e.
table grapes), the production to count will be in accordance with section 12(c)(2(ii));
(c) That are grown in a vineyard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us;
(d) That, after being set out or grafted, have reached the number of growing seasons designated by the Special Provisions; and
(e) That have produced an average of at least two tons of grapes per acre (or as otherwise provided in the Special Provisions) in at
least one of the three crop years immediately preceding the insured crop year, unless we inspect and allow insurance on acreage that has not produced this amount.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, grapes interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) For the year of application, coverage begins on February 1 in Arizona and California, and November 21 in all other states. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if your application is received by us after January 12 but prior to February 1 in Arizona or California, or after November 1 but prior to November 21 in all other states, insurance will attach on the 20th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 20-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the vineyard.
(2) For each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(3) If in accordance with the terms of the policy, your grape policy is cancelled or terminated for any crop year after insurance attached for that crop year, but on or before the cancellation and termination dates, whichever is later, insurance will not be considered to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.
(4) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is as follows, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions:
(i) October 10 in Mississippi and Texas;
(ii) November 10 in Arizona, California, Idaho, Oregon and Washington; and
(iii) November 20 in all other states.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins, but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period. Acreage acquired after the acreage reporting date will not be insured.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of grapes on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the vineyard;
(3) Insects, except as excluded in 10(b)(1), but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Phylloxera, regardless of cause; or
(2) Inability to market the grapes for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(a) You must notify us within 3 days of the date harvest should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(b) If the crop has been damaged during the growing season and you previously gave notice in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), you must also provide notice at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest if you intend to claim an indemnity as a result of the damage previously reported. You must not destroy the damaged crop that is marketed in normal commercial channels, until after we have given you written consent to do so. If you fail to meet the requirements of this section, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election you selected for each type or variety;
(3) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to count of each type or variety, if applicable, (see section 12 (c) through (e)) by the respective price election you selected;
(5) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result in section 12(b)(5) from the result in section 12(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 12(b)(6) by your share.
(c) The total production to count (in tons) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned or destroyed by you without our consent;
(B) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(C) For which you fail to provide production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies in accordance with subsection 12 (e)); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage:
(i) Grape production that is harvested and dried for raisins will be converted to a fresh weight basis by multiplying the number of tons of raisin production by 4.5.
(ii) Grapes grown for wine, juice, raisins or canning and put to another use, will be counted as production to count on a tonnage basis. No quality adjustment other than that specifically provided for in your policy is available.
(d) If any grapes are harvested before normal maturity or for a special use (such as Champagne or Botrytis-affected grapes), the production of such grapes will be increased by the factor obtained by dividing the price per ton received for such grapes by the price per ton for fully matured grapes of the type for which the claim is being made.
(e) Mature marketable grape production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies as follows:
(1) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if, due to insurable causes, it has a value of less than 75 percent of the average market price of undamaged grapes of the same or similar variety. The value per ton of the qualifying damaged production and the average market price of undamaged grapes will be determined on the earlier of the date the damaged production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit. The average market price of undamaged production will be calculated by averaging the prices being paid by usual marketing outlets for the area during the week in which the damaged grapes were valued.
(2) Grape production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in subsection 12(e)(1) will be reduced by:
(i) Dividing the value per ton of the damaged grapes by the value per ton for undamaged grapes (the value of undamaged grapes will be the lesser of the average market price or the maximum price election for such grapes); and
(ii) Multiplying this result (not to exceed 1.000) by the number of tons of the eligible damaged grapes.

# 13. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 33741, June 23, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65173, Dec. 10, 1997; 63 FR 31338, June 9, 1998; 64 FR 24932, May 10, 1999; 74 FR 32055, July 7, 2009]
§ 457.139
Fresh market tomato (dollar plan) crop insurance provisions.
The fresh market tomato (dollar plan) crop insurance provisions for the 2024 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies

# Fresh market tomato (dollar plan) crop provisions

# 1. Definitions
Acre.
43,560 square feet of planted acreage when row widths do not exceed six feet. If row widths exceed six feet, the land area on which at least 7,260 linear feet of rows are planted.
Allowable cost.
The dollar amount per carton for harvesting, packing, and handling as stated in the actuarial documents.
Amount of insurance per acre.
The dollar amount of insurance per acre obtained by multiplying the reference maximum dollar amount shown in the actuarial documents by the coverage level percentage you elect.
Carton.
Twenty-five (25) pounds of the insured crop.
Crop year.
In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), crop year is a period of time that begins on the first day of the earliest planting period for fall planted tomatoes and continues through the last day of the insurance period for spring planted tomatoes. The crop year is designated by the calendar year in which spring planted tomatoes are harvested.
Direct marketing.
In addition to the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the sale of the insured crop directly to consumers without the intervention of an intermediary including a registered handler.
Excess rain.
An amount of precipitation sufficient to directly damage the crop.
Freeze.
The formation of ice in the cells of the plant or its fruit, caused by low air temperatures.
Fresh market tomatoes.
Field grown mature green or ripe fresh market tomatoes that meet the Agricultural Marketing Service United States Standards for Grades of Fresh Tomatoes; and the applicable Federal Marketing Order and Florida Tomato Committee Regulations, or their successors.
Harvest.
The picking of fresh market tomatoes from the plants, excluding tomatoes salvaged by penhookers.
Mature green tomato.
A tomato that:
(1) Has a glossy waxy skin that cannot be torn by scraping;
(2) Has well-formed, jelly-like substance in the locules;
(3) Has seeds that are sufficiently hard so as to be pushed aside and not cut by a sharp knife in slicing; and
(4) Shows no red color.
Minimum value.
The dollar amount per carton shown in the actuarial documents we will use to value appraised and unsold harvested production to count.
Penhookers.
Individuals who purchase the right to salvage tomatoes remaining in the field after commercial harvests are completed.
Plant stand.
The number of live plants per acre prior to the occurrence of an insured cause of loss.
Planting period.
The period of time designated in the actuarial documents in which the tomatoes must be planted to be considered fall, winter or spring-planted tomatoes.
Potential production.
The number of cartons of field grown mature green or ripe fresh market tomatoes that the tomato plants will or would have produced per acre assuming normal growing conditions and practices by the end of the insurance period.
Price received.
The gross dollar amount per carton received by the producer before deductions of allowable costs.
Registered handler.
A person or entity officially certified by the Florida Tomato Committee, or successor entity, to inspect and enforce all the handling regulations for fresh market tomatoes, and report the required packout data to the Florida Tomato Committee.
Ripe tomato.
A tomato that has a definite break in color from green to tannish-yellow, pink or red.
Row width.
The widest distance from the center of one row of plants to the center of an adjacent row of plants.
Tropical depression.
A system identified by the U.S. Weather Service as a tropical depression, and for the period of time so designated, including tropical storms, gales, and hurricanes.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will also be divided into additional basic units by planting period.
(b) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable.

# 3. Amounts of Insurance and Production Stages
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions you may select only one coverage level (and the corresponding amount of insurance designated in the actuarial documents for the applicable planting period and practice) for all the tomatoes in the county insured under this policy.
(b) The amount of insurance you choose for each planting period and practice must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each planting period and practice. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum amount of insurance for a specific planting period and practice, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum amount of insurance for all other planting periods and practices.
(c) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 of the Basic Provisions do not apply to fresh market dollar plan tomatoes.
(d) The amounts of insurance per acre are progressive by stages as follows:
Stage
Percent of the amount of insurance per acre that you selected
Length of time if transplanted
1
50
From planting through the 29th day after planting.
2
75
From the 30th day after planting until the beginning of stage 3.
3
90
From the 60th day after planting until the beginning of the final stage.
Final
100
Begins the earlier of 75 days after planting, or the beginning of harvest.
(e) Any acreage of fresh market tomatoes damaged in the first, second, or third stage to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would not normally further care for the crop, the indemnity payable for such acreage will be based on the stage the plants had achieved when the insured damage occurred, even if the producer continues to care for the damaged tomatoes.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is April 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are July 31.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must report on or before the acreage reporting date contained in the Special Provisions for each planting period:
(a) All the acreage of tomatoes in the county insured under this policy in which you have a share;
(b) The dates the acreage was planted within each planting period; and
(c) The row width.

# 7. Annual Premium
In lieu of the premium amount determinations contained in section 7 of the Basic Provisions, the annual premium amount for each cultural practice (e.g., fall transplanted irrigated) is determined by multiplying the final stage amount of insurance per acre by the premium rate for the cultural practice as established in the actuarial documents, by the insured acreage, by your share at the time coverage begins, and by any applicable premium adjustment factors contained in the actuarial documents.

# 8. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the field grown mature green or ripe fresh market tomato types in the county as specified in the Special Provisions for which a premium rate is provided in the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are:
(1) Planted to be harvested and sold as fresh market tomatoes;
(2) Planted within the planting periods designated in the actuarial documents;
(3) Grown under an irrigated practice;
(4) Grown on acreage covered by plastic mulch except where the Special Provisions allows otherwise;
(5) Grown by a person who in at least one of the three previous crop years:
(i) Grew tomatoes for commercial sale; or
(ii) Participated in managing a fresh market tomato farming operation;
(c) That are not:
(1) Interplanted with another crop;
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume;
(3) Grown for direct marketing; or
(4) Direct seeded fresh market tomatoes, unless insured by written agreement.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
(a) In lieu of section 9 of the Basic Provisions, that prohibit insurance attaching if a crop has not been planted in at least one of the three previous crop years, we will insure newly cleared land and former pasture land planted to fresh market tomatoes.
(b) In addition to section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) You must replant any acreage of tomatoes damaged during the planting period in which initial planting took place whenever less than 50 percent of the plant stand remains and
(i) It is practical to replant;
(ii) If, at the time the crop was damaged, the final day of the planting period has not passed; and
(iii) The damage occurs within 30 days of transplanting.
(2) Whenever tomatoes initially are planted during the fall or winter planting periods and the conditions specified in sections 9(b)(1) (ii) and (iii) are not met, you may elect:
(i) To replant such acreage and collect any replant payment due as specified in section 12. The initial planting period coverage will continue for such replanted acreage.
(ii) Not to replant such acreage and receive an indemnity based on the stage of growth the plants had attained at the time of damage. However, such an election will result in the acreage being uninsurable in the subsequent planting period.
(3) We will not insure any acreage on which tomatoes (except for replanted tomatoes in accordance with sections 9(b)(1) and (2)), peppers, eggplants, strawberries or tobacco have been grown and the soil was not fumigated or otherwise properly treated before planting the insured tomatoes.

# 10. Insurance Period
In lieu of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, coverage begins on each unit or part of a unit the later of the date we accept your application, or when the tomatoes are planted in each planting period. Coverage ends on each unit at the earliest of:
(a) Total destruction of the tomatoes on the unit;
(b) Abandonment of the tomatoes on the unit;
(c) The date harvest should have started on the unit on any acreage which will not be harvested;
(d) Final adjustment of a loss on the unit;
(e) Final harvest on the unit; or
(f) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period that is 125 days after the date of transplanting or replanting with transplants.

# 11. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Excess rain;
(2) Fire;
(3) Freeze;
(4) Hail;
(5) Tornado;
(6) Tropical depression; or
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Disease or insect infestation, unless no effective control measure exists for such disease or insect infestation; or
(2) Failure to harvest in a timely manner or failure to sell the tomatoes, unless such failure is due to actual physical damage caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period. For example, we will not pay an indemnity if you are unable to sell the insured crop due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 12. Replanting Payments
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if, due to an insured cause of loss, more than 50 percent of the plant stand will not produce tomatoes and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of your actual cost of replanting or the result obtained by multiplying the per acre replanting payment amount contained in the Special Provisions by your insured share.
(c) In lieu of the provisions contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions, that limit a replanting payment to one each crop year, only one replanting payment will be made for acreage planted during each planting period within the crop year.

# 13. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements contained in section 14 of the Basic Provisions, if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit you must also give us notice not later than 72 hours after the earliest of:
(a) The time you discontinue harvest of any acreage on the unit;
(b) The date harvest normally would start if any acreage on the unit will not be harvested; or
(c) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period.

# 14. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage in each stage by the amount of insurance per acre for the final stage;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 14(b)(1) by the percentage for the applicable stage (see section 3(d));
(3) Total the results of section 14(b)(2);
(4) Subtracting either of the following values from the result of section 14(b)(3):
(i) For other than catastrophic risk protection coverage, the total value of production to be counted (see section 14(c)); or
(ii) For catastrophic risk protection coverage, the result of multiplying the total value of production to count determined in accordance with section 14(c) by the percentage contained in the Special Provisions.
(5) Multiplying the result of section 14(b)(4) by your share.
For Example: You have a 100 percent share in 10.0 acres of fresh market tomatoes. You select a 70% coverage level of the reference maximum dollar amount of $7,500 per acre. The average price received is $10.00 per carton of tomatoes. Allowable costs are $4.25 per carton. Minimum value is $5.00 per carton. Your total sold production is 5,000 cartons (5,000 ÷ 10.0 = 500 cartons per acre) and you have an additional 1,000 cartons of unsold harvested production (1,000 ÷ 10.0 = 100 cartons per acre). Your loss occurred in the final stage of production. Your total indemnity is calculated as follows:
$7,500 × 70% = dollar amount of insurance per acre
$5,250
14(c)(3)
500 cartons × $5.75 = value of sold production ($10 selling price minus $4.25 allowable cost)
2,875
14(c)(4)
100 cartons of unsold harvested production × $5 minimum value per carton
+ 500
Total value of production to count
3,375
14(b)(5)
Indemnity per acre = ($5,250 − $3,375) × 100% share
1,875
$1,875 × 10.0 acres = $18,750 total indemnity payment
18,750
(c) The total value of production to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) Not less than the amount of insurance per acre for the stage for any acreage:
(i) That is abandoned;
(ii) Put to another use without our consent;
(iii) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(iv) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(2) The value of the following appraised production will not be less than the dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of cartons of appraised tomatoes by the minimum value per carton shown in the Special Provisions for the planting period:
(i) Potential production on any fresh market tomato acreage that has not been harvested the required number of times as specified in the Special Provisions;
(ii) Unharvested mature green tomatoes (unharvested production that is damaged or defective due to insurable causes and is not marketable will not be counted as production to count);
(iii) Production lost due to uninsured causes; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) We may require you to continue to care for the crop so that a subsequent appraisal may be made or the crop harvested to determine actual production. (If we require you to continue to care for the crop and you do not do so, the original appraisal will be used); or
(B) You may elect to continue to care for the crop, in which case the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if the crop is not harvested.
(3) The total value of all sold harvested production from the insurable acreage will be the dollar amount obtained by subtracting the allowable cost contained in the actuarial documents from the price received for each carton of fresh market tomatoes in
the load (this result may not be less than the minimum value shown in the actuarial documents for any carton of tomatoes), and multiplying this result by the number of cartons of fresh market tomatoes harvested.
(4) The total value of all unsold harvested production will be the dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of cartons of such tomatoes on the unit by the minimum value shown in the actuarial documentsfor the planting period. Harvested production that is damaged or defective due to an insured cause of loss and is not sold will not be counted as production to count.
(5) Any penhooker salvage value paid to you will be added to the total dollar value of production to count.

# 15. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 16. Minimum Value Option
(a) The provisions of this option are continuous and will be attached to and made a part of your insurance policy, if:
(1) You elect the Minimum Value Option on your application, or on a form approved by us, on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year in which you wish to insure fresh market tomatoes (dollar plan) under this option, and pay the additional premium indicated in the actuarial documents for this optional coverage; and
(2) You have not elected coverage under the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement.
(b) In lieu of the provisions contained in sections 14(c)(3) and 14(c)(4) of these Crop Provisions, the total value of harvested production will be determined as follows:
(1) For sold harvested production, the dollar amount obtained by subtracting the allowable cost contained in the actuarial documents from the price received for each carton of fresh market tomatoes in the load (this result may not be less than the minimum value option price contained in the actuarial documents for any carton of tomatoes sold), and multiplying this result by the number of cartons of fresh market tomatoes sold; and
(2) For unsold harvested production, the dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of cartons of such fresh market tomatoes on the unit by the minimum value shown in the actuarial documents for the planting period. Harvested production that is damaged or defective due to an insured cause of loss and is not sold will not be counted as production to count.
(c) This option may be canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice on or before the cancellation date preceding the crop year for which the cancellation of this option is to be effective.
Example with Minimum Value Option:
You have a 100 percent share in 10.0 acres of fresh market tomatoes. You select a 70% coverage level of the reference maximum dollar amount of $7,500 per acre. The average price received is $6.00 per carton of tomatoes. Allowable costs are $4.25 per carton. Minimum value is $5.00 per carton. The Minimum Value Option price is $2.00 per carton. Your total sold production is 5,000 cartons (5,000 ÷ 10.0 = 500 cartons per acre) and you have an additional 1,000 cartons of unsold harvested production (1,000 ÷ 10.0 = 100 cartons per acre). Your loss occurred in the final stage of production. Your total indemnity is calculated as follows:
$7,500 × 70% = dollar amount of insurance per acre
$5,250
16(b)(1)
500 cartons × $2 = value of sold production ($6 price received minus $4.25 allowable costs = $1.75. The $2.00 minimum value option price is greater than $1.75)
1,000
16(b)(2)
100 cartons of unsold harvested production × $5 minimum value per carton
500
Total value of production to count
1,500
16(b)
Indemnity per acre = $5,250 − $1,500 = $3,750 × 100% share
3,750
$3,750 × 10.0 acres = $37,500 total indemnity payment
37,500
[62 FR 14777, Mar. 28, 1997; 62 FR 63634, Dec. 2, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65174, Dec. 10, 1997; 77 FR 22469, Apr. 16, 2012; 87 FR 38896, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52853, Aug. 30, 2022; 87 FR 72363, Nov. 6, 2022]
§ 457.140
Dry pea crop insurance provisions.
The Dry Pea Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Dry Pea Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Dry Pea Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Adequate stand.
A population of live plants per acre that will produce at least the yield used to establish your production guarantee.
Base contract price.
The price per pound stipulated in the processor/seed company contract without regard to discounts or incentives that may apply, and that will be paid to the producer for at least 50 percent of the total production under contract with the processor/seed company.
Combining.
A mechanical process that separates dry peas from the pods and other vegetative matter and places dry peas into a temporary storage receptacle.
Conditioning.
A process that improves the quality of production by screening or any other operation commonly used in the dry pea industry to remove dry peas that are deficient in quality.
Contract seed types.
Peas (Pisum sativum L.) or other categories of dry peas identified in the Special Provisions grown under the terms of a processor/seed company contract for the purpose of producing seed to be used in planting a future year's crop.
Dry peas.
Peas (
Pisum sativum
L.), Austrian Peas (
Pisum sativum spp arvense
), Fava or Faba beans (
Vicia faba
L.), Lentils (
Lens culinaris
Medik.), Chickpeas (
Cicer arietinum
L.), and other types as listed in the Special Provisions or insured by written agreement.
Harvest.
Combining of dry peas. Dry peas that are swathed prior to combining are not considered harvested.
Latest final planting date.
(a) The final planting date for spring-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate a spring-planted type only;
(b) The final planting date for fall-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate a fall-planted type only; or
(c) The final planting date for spring-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate both spring-planted and fall-planted types.
Local market price.
The cash price per pound for the U.S. No. 1 grade of dry peas as determined by us. This price will be considered the prevailing dollar amount buyers are willing to pay for dry peas containing the maximum limits of quality deficiencies allowable for the U.S. No. 1 grade. Moisture content and factors not associated with grading under the United States Standards for Whole Dry Peas, Beans (Chickpeas, Fava or Faba beans), and Lentils will not be considered, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
Nurse crop (companion crop).
A crop planted into the same acreage as another crop to improve the growing conditions for the crop with which it is grown, and that is intended to be harvested separately.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, dry peas must initially be planted in rows to be considered planted. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.
Practical to replant.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, it will be considered practical to replant:
(a) Contract seed types only if the processor/seed company will accept the production under the terms of the processor/seed company contract.
(b) Fall-planted types 25 days or less after the final planting date for the corresponding spring-planted type of dry peas.
Prevented planting.
As defined in the Basic Provisions, except that the references to “final planting date” contained in the definition in the Basic Provisions are replaced with the “latest final planting date.”
Price election.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, the price election for contract seed types will be the percentage you elect (not to exceed 100 percent) of the base contract price and used for the purposes of determining premium and indemnity for contract seed types under this policy.
Processor/seed company.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in the processing of contract seed types, that possesses all licenses and permits for marketing contract seed types required by the state in which it operates, and that owns, or has contracted, sufficient drying, screening, and bagging or packaging equipment to accept and process the contract seed types within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor/seed company contract.
A written agreement between the producer and the processor/seed company, executed by the acreage reporting date, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's promise to plant and grow one or more specific varieties of contract seed types, and deliver the production from those varieties to the processor/seed company;
(b) The processor/seed company's promise to purchase all the production stated in the contract; and
(c) A fixed price, or a method to determine such price based on published information
compiled by a third party, that will be paid to the producer for at least 50 percent of the production stated in the contract.
Swathed.
Severance of the stem and pods from the ground without removal of the seeds from the pods and placing them into windrows.
Type.
A category of dry peas identified as a type in the Special Provisions or insured by written agreement.
Windrow.
Dry peas where the plants are cut and placed in a row.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) In addition to enterprise units provided in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions, you may elect separate enterprise units by type, as provided in this section, if allowed by the actuarial documents. If you elect enterprise units by type, you may not elect enterprise or optional units by any other practice or type.
(1) You may elect separate enterprise units by type unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions. For example, if you have Spring Austrian Peas and Spring Desi Chickpea types, you may elect one enterprise unit for the Spring Austrian Peas type or one enterprise unit for the Spring Desi Chickpeas type, or separate enterprise units for both types. Any acreage which is not reported and insured as an enterprise unit will be insured as a basic unit or optional unit if requirements are met. For example, if you only have Spring Austrian Peas and Spring Desi Chickpea types, you may have an enterprise unit for the Spring Austrian Peas type acreage and basic or optional units for the Spring Desi Chickpeas type acreage.
(2) You must separately meet the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions for each enterprise unit.
(3) If you elected separate enterprise units for multiple types and we discover enterprise unit qualifications are not separately met for all types in which you elected enterprise unit and such discovery is made:
(i) On or before the acreage reporting date, you may elect to insure:
(A) All types in which you elected an enterprise unit for meeting the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions as separate enterprise units, and basic or optional units for any acreage that is not reported and insured as an enterprise unit, whichever you report on your acreage report and for which you qualify;
(B) One enterprise unit for all acreage of the crop in the county provided you meet the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions; or
(C) Basic or optional units for all acreage of the crop in the county, whichever you report on your acreage report and for which you qualify; or
(ii) At any time after the acreage reporting date, your unit structure will be one enterprise unit for all acreage of crop in the county provided you meet the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions. Otherwise, we will assign the basic unit structure for all acreage of crop in the county.
(4) If you elected an enterprise unit for only one type and we discover you do not qualify for an enterprise unit for that type and such discovery is made:
(i) On or before the acreage reporting date, your unit division for all acreage of the crop in the county will be based on basic or optional units, whichever you report on your acreage report and for which you qualify; or
(ii) At any time after the acreage reporting date, we will assign the basic unit structure for all acreage of the crop in the county.
(b) In addition to, or instead of, establishing optional units as provided in section 34(c) in the Basic Provisions, separate optional units may be established for each dry pea type (designated in actuarial documents and including any type insured by written agreement).
(c) Enterprise and optional units by type may be further divided by acreage of contract seed types and dry pea types not grown under a processor/seed company contract even if they share a common variety provided each dry pea type is grown on separate acreage and the production is kept separate.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 3(b) of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one coverage level for each type. However, if you elect the Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) level of insurance for any dry pea type, the CAT level of coverage will be applicable to all insured dry pea acreage in the county.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If the actuarial documents do not designate separate price elections by type, you may select only one price election for all dry peas in the county insured under this policy.
(2) If the actuarial documents designate separate price elections by type, you may select one price election for each dry pea type even if the prices for each type are the same. The price elections you choose for each type are not required to have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you may choose 75 percent of the maximum price election for another type.
(c) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, in counties with both a fall and spring sales closing date for the insured crop:
(1) If you do not have any insurable fall-planted dry pea acreage covered under the Winter Coverage Option, you may change
your coverage level or percentage of price election until the spring sales closing date; or
(2) If you have any insurable fall-planted dry pea acreage covered under the Winter Coverage Option, you may not change your coverage level or percentage of price election after the fall sales closing date.
(d) If a dry pea type is added after the sales closing date, we will assign:
(1) A coverage level equal to the lowest coverage level you selected for any other dry pea types; and
(2) A price election percentage equal to:
(i) 100 percent of the price election if you elected additional coverage; and
(ii) 55 percent of the price election if you elected catastrophic level of coverage.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is June 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with an October 31 cancellation date, or November 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a March 15 cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are as follows:
State and county
Cancellation and
termination dates
All counties in California and Arizona Counties: La Paz, Maricopa, Mohave, Pima, Pinal, and Yuma
October 31.
All other Arizona counties and all other states
March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must submit a copy of the processor/seed company contract to us on or before the acreage reporting date if you are insuring contract seed types.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the dry pea types in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are planted for harvesting once maturity is reached as:
(i) Dry peas; or
(ii) Contract seed types, if the processor/seed company contract is executed on or before the acreage reporting date;
(3) That are not planted to plow down, graze, harvest as hay, or otherwise not planted for harvest as a mature dry pea crop; and
(4) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Interplanted with another crop;
(ii) Planted into an established grass or legume; or
(iii) Planted as a nurse crop.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the processor/seed company contract, you retain control of the acreage on which the dry peas are grown, you are at risk of loss (i.e., if there is a reduction in quantity or quality of your dry pea production, you will receive less income under the contract), and the processor/seed company contract is in effect for the entire insurance period.
(c) In counties for which the actuarial documents provide premium rates for the Winter Coverage Option (see section 15), coverage is available for dry peas between the time coverage begins and the spring final planting date. Coverage under the option is effective only if you qualify under the terms of the option and you elect the option by its sales closing date.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements, if applicable, contained in the Special Provisions; or
(b) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that producers in the surrounding area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.
(c) When the Special Provisions designate both fall and spring-planted types, and the Winter Coverage Option is not in force for the acreage:
(1) Any fall-planted dry pea acreage that is damaged before the spring final planting date, to the extent that producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a fall-planted type of dry peas to obtain insurance based on the fall-planted type unless we agree that replanting is not practical. If it is not practical to replant to a fall-planted type of dry peas but it is practical to replant to a spring-planted type, you must replant to a spring-planted type to obtain insurance coverage based on the fall-planted type.
(2) Any fall-planted dry pea acreage that is replanted to a spring-planted type when it was practical to replant the fall-planted type
will be insured as the spring-planted type and the production guarantee, premium and price election applicable to the spring-planted type will be used. In this case, the acreage will be considered initially planted to the spring-planted type.
(d) When the Special Provisions designate both fall-planted and spring-planted types, and the Winter Coverage Option is in force for the acreage, insurance will be in accordance with the Winter Coverage Option (see section 15).
(e) Whenever the Special Provisions designate only a spring-planted type, any acreage of a fall-planted dry pea crop is not insured unless you request such coverage on or before the spring sales closing date, and we inspect and determine that the acreage has an adequate stand in the spring to produce the yield used to determine your production guarantee.
(1) The fall-planted dry pea crop will be insured as a spring-planted type for the purpose of the production guarantee, premium and price election.
(2) Insurance will attach to such fall-planted acreage on the date we determine an adequate stand exists or on the spring final planting date if we do not determine adequacy of the stand prior to the spring final planting date.
(3) Any acreage of such fall-planted dry peas that is damaged after it is accepted for insurance but before the spring final planting date, to the extent that producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a spring-planted type of dry pea unless we agree it is not practical to replant. No replanting payment will be made.
(4) If fall-planted acreage is not to be insured it must be recorded on the acreage report as uninsured fall-planted acreage.

# 9. Insurance Period
In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, and subject to the provisions provided by the Winter Coverage Option (see section 15) if you elect such option, the insurance period is as follows:
(a) If the Special Provisions designate both fall-planted and spring-planted types, and the Winter Coverage Option is not in force for the acreage, you must report fall-planted acreage to your crop insurance agent on or before the spring sales closing date. Fall-planted types are only insurable if there is an adequate stand in the spring. Insurance will attach to such acreage on the date we determine an adequate stand exists or on the spring final planting date if we do not make that determination prior to the spring final planting date, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions. Fall-planted acreage must be reported and insured if it meets the requirements of section 8.
(b) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for all insurable types of dry peas in the county is September 30 of the crop year in which the crop is normally harvested unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.

# 10. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; or
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss contained in section 10(a) through (g) that occurs during the insurance period.

# 11. Replanting Payments
(a) A replanting payment is allowed as follows:
(1) In lieu of provisions in section 13 of the Basic Provisions that limit the amount of a replant payment to the actual cost of replanting, the amount of any replanting payment will be determined in accordance with these Crop Provisions;
(2) You must comply with all requirements regarding replanting payments contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions (except as allowed in section 11(a)(1)) and in the Winter Coverage Option (see section 15), if applicable;
(3) The insured crop must be damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage;
(4) The acreage must have been initially planted to a spring type of the insured crop in those counties with only a spring type designated in the Special Provisions;
(5) When the Winter Coverage Option is in effect for the acreage, damage must occur after the fall final planting date in those counties where both fall and spring types are designated in the Special Provisions;
(6) Replanting payments are not available for damaged fall-planted types if you have not elected to cover such acreage under the Winter Coverage Option; and
(7) The replanted crop must be seeded at a rate sufficient to achieve a total (undamaged and new seeding) plant population that will produce at least the yield used to determine your production guarantee.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 20.0 percent of the production guarantee or 200 pounds, multiplied by your price election, multiplied by your share, unless otherwise stated in the Special Provisions.
(c) When the crop is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable for an original planting, the liability on the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.
(d) Replanting payments will be calculated using the price election and production guarantee for the dry pea type that is replanted and insured. For example, if damaged smooth green and yellow pea acreage is replanted to lentils, the price election and production guarantee applicable to lentils will be used to calculate any replanting payment that may be due. A revised acreage report will be required to reflect the replanted type. Notwithstanding the previous two sentences, the following will have a replanting payment based on the guarantee and price election for the crop type initially planted:
(1) Any damaged fall-planted type of dry peas replanted to a spring-planted type that retains insurance based on the production guarantee and price election for the fall-planted type; and
(2) Any acreage replanted at a reduced seeding rate into a partially damaged stand of the insured crop.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
Representative samples are required in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production that are acceptable to us for any:
(1) Optional units, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or
(2) Basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage to your dry pea crop covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage of each dry pea type, if applicable, excluding contract seed types, by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 13(b)(1) by the respective price election;
(3) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(2) if there is more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the insured acreage of each contract seed type variety by its respective production guarantee;
(5) Multiplying each result of section 13(b)(4) by the applicable base contract price;
(6) Multiplying each result of section 13(b)(5) by your selected price election percentage;
(7) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(6) if there is more than one type;
(8) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(3) and section 13(b)(7);
(9) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each dry pea type, excluding contract seed types, if applicable (see section 13(d)), by the respective price elections;
(10) Totaling the value of all contract seed type production (see section 13(c));
(11) Totaling the results of section 13(b)(9) and section 13(b)(10);
(12) Subtracting the result of section 13(b)(11) from the result in section 13(b)(8); and
(13) Multiplying the result of section 13(b)(12) by your share.

# Examples for Section 13(b)
Example 1:
In this example, you have not elected optional units by type. You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of spring-planted smooth green dry edible peas in the unit, with a production guarantee of 4,000 pounds per acre and a price election of $0.15 per pound. Your selected price election percentage is 100 percent. You are only able to harvest 200,000 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 4,000 pounds = 400,000-pound guarantee;
(2) 400,000-pound guarantee × $0.12 price election = $48,000 value of guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) Not applicable;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) Not applicable;
(7) Not applicable;
(8) Not applicable;
(9) 200,000-pound production to count × $0.12 price election = $24,000 value of production to count;
(10) Not applicable;
(11) Not applicable;
(12) $48,000 value of guarantee−$24,000 value of production to count = $24,000 loss; and
(13) $24,000 × 100 percent share = $24,000 indemnity payment.
Example 2:
Assume the same facts in example 1. Also assume you have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of contract seed types in the same unit, with a production guarantee of 5,000 pounds per acre and a base contract price of $0.40 per pound. Your selected price election percentage is 100 percent. You are only able to harvest 450,000 pounds. Your total indemnity for both spring-planted smooth green dry edible peas and contract seed types would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 4,000 pounds = 400,000-pound guarantee for the spring-planted smooth green dry edible pea type;
(2) 400,000-pound guarantee × $0.12 price election = $48,000 value of guarantee for the spring-planted smooth green dry edible pea type;
(3) $48,000 (only one spring-planted smooth green dry edible pea type; no other types in this example to total);
(4) 100 acres × 5,000 pounds = 500,000-pound guarantee for the contract seed type;
(5) 500,000-pound guarantee × $0.40 base contract price = $200,000 gross value of guarantee for the contract seed type;
(6) $200,000 × 1.00 price election percentage = $200,000 value of guarantee for the contract seed type;
(7) $200,000 (only one contract seed type; no other types in this example to total);
(8) $48,000 + $200,000 = $248,000 total value of guarantee;
(9) 200,000-pound production to count × $0.12 price election = $24,000 value of production to count for the spring-planted smooth green dry edible pea type;
(10) 450,000-pound production to count × $0.40 = $180,000 value of production to count for the contract seed type;
(11) $24,000 + $180,000 = $204,000 total value of production to count;
(12) $248,000−$204,000 = $44,000 loss; and
(13) $44,000 loss × 100 percent share = $44,000 indemnity payment.
End of Examples.
(c) The value of contract seed type production to count for each variety in the unit will be determined as follows:
(1) For mature production meeting the objective, measurable minimum quality requirements (e.g., size, germination percentage) contained in the processor/seed company contract, and for mature production that does not meet such requirements due to uninsured causes:
(i) Multiplying the local market price or base contract price per pound, whichever is greater, by the price election percentage you selected; and
(ii) Multiplying the result by the number of pounds of such production.
(2) For mature production not meeting the objective, measurable minimum quality requirements (e.g., size, germination percentage) contained in the processor/seed company contract, due to insurable causes, and immature production that is appraised:
(i) Multiplying the highest local market price available for such dry peas by the price election percentage you selected; and
(ii) Multiplying the result by the number of pounds of such production.
(d) The total dry pea production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production of dry peas may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 13(c) or (e), or as specified in the Special Provisions if applicable); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(e) Mature dry pea production to count may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. Any adjustment for moisture will be made prior to any adjustment for quality. Adjustment for excess moisture and quality deficiencies will not be applicable to contract seed types.
(1) Production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of 14 percent. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment in accordance with the following, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions:
(i) Deficiencies in quality, in accordance with the United States Standards for Whole
Dry Peas, Beans (Chickpeas, Fava or Faba beans), and Lentils, result in production grading U.S. No. 2 or worse because of defects, color, skinned production (lentils only), odor, material weathering, or distinctly low quality; or
(ii) Substances or conditions are present that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health.
(3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss only if:
(i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these Crop Provisions and which occurs within the insurance period;
(ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions result in a net price for the damaged production that is less than the local market price;
(iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions are made using samples of the production obtained by us or by a disinterested third party approved by us;
(iv) With regard to deficiencies in quality (except test weight, which may be determined by our loss adjuster), the samples are analyzed by:
(A) A grader licensed under the United States Agricultural Marketing Act or the United States Warehouse Act;
(B) A grader licensed under State law and employed by a warehouse operator who has a storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation; or
(C) A grader not licensed under State law, but who is employed by a warehouse operator who has a commodity storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation and is in compliance with State law regarding warehouses; and
(v) With regard to substances or conditions injurious to human or animal health, the samples are analyzed by a laboratory approved by us.
(4) Dry Pea production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in sections 13(e)(2) and (3), will be reduced as follows:
(i) The highest local market price for the qualifying damaged production will be determined on the earlier of the date such damaged production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit. The highest local market price for the qualifying damaged production will be determined in the local area to the extent feasible. We may obtain prices from any buyer of our choice. If we obtain prices from one or more buyers located outside your local market area, we will reduce such prices by the additional costs required to deliver the dry peas to those buyers. Discounts used to establish the net value of the damaged production will be limited to those that are usual, customary, and reasonable.
The value will not be reduced for:
(A) Moisture content;
(B) Damage due to uninsured causes; or
(C) Drying, handling, processing, or any other costs associated with normal harvesting, handling, and marketing of the dry peas; except, if the value of the damaged production can be increased by conditioning, we may reduce the value of the production after it has been conditioned by the cost of conditioning but not lower than the value of the production before conditioning;
(ii) The value per pound of the damaged or conditioned production will be divided by the local market price to determine the quality adjustment factor; and
(iii) The number of pounds remaining after any reduction due to excess moisture (the moisture-adjusted gross pounds, if appropriate) of the damaged or conditioned production will then be multiplied by the quality adjustment factor to determine the net production to count to be included in section 13(d);
(f) Any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on a weight basis.

# 14. Prevented Planting
(a) In counties for which the Special Provisions designate both fall-planted and spring-planted types, your prevented planting production guarantee will be based on your approved yield for spring-planted acreage of the insured crop.
(b) Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.

# 15. Winter Coverage Option
(a) In the event of a conflict between this section and sections 1 through 14 of these Crop Provisions, this section will control.
(b) You must have purchased additional coverage under the Dry Pea Crop Provisions in order to select this option.
(c) In return for payment of the additional premium designated in the actuarial documents, this option is available in counties for which the actuarial documents provide premium rates for the Winter Coverage Option.
(d) This option is available only in counties for which the Special Provisions designate both fall-planted and spring-planted types.
(e) You must select this option on your application for insurance, or on a form approved by us, on or before the sales closing
date for the initial year in which you wish to insure dry peas under this option.
(1) Failure to do so means you have rejected this coverage for the dry pea crop planted in the fall and this option is void.
(2) This option will continue in effect until canceled or coverage under the Dry Pea Crop Provisions is canceled or terminated.
(3) This option may be canceled by you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice to the other party on or before the cancellation date contained in section 15(g) preceding the crop year for which the cancellation of this option is to be effective.
(4) You may change your coverage level or percentage of price election for dry pea types until the spring sales closing date if you have selected this option, but do not have any insured fall-planted acreage or your fall-planted acreage is not eligible for this option.
(f) Coverage under this option begins on the later of the date we accept your application for coverage or on the fall final planting date designated in the Special Provisions. Coverage ends on the spring final planting date designated in the Special Provisions.
(g) If you elect this option for dry peas initially planted in the fall, the following dates will be applicable to all your fall-planted and spring-planted dry peas in the county:
(1) Contract change date is June 30 preceding the cancellation date;
(2) Cancellation date is September 30; and
(3) Termination date is November 30. For a policy with amounts due, when the sales closing date is prior to the previous crop year termination date, such policies will terminate for the current crop year even if insurance attached prior to the termination date. Such termination will be considered effective as of the sales closing date and no insurance will be considered to have attached for the crop year and no indemnity, prevented planting or replant payment will be owed.
(h) All notices of damage must be provided to us not later than 15 days after the spring final planting date designated in the Special Provisions.
(i) All insurable acreage of each fall-planted dry pea type covered under this option must be insured.
(j) The amount of any indemnity paid under the terms of this option will be subject to any reduction specified in the Basic Provisions for multiple crop benefits in the same crop year.
(k) Whenever any acreage of dry peas planted in the fall is damaged during the insurance period and at least 20 acres or 20 percent of the insured planted acreage in the unit, whichever is less, does not have an adequate stand to produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage, you may, at your option, take one of the following actions:
(1) Continue to care for the damaged dry peas. By doing so, coverage will continue under the terms of the Basic Provisions, these Crop Provisions and this option;
(2) Replant the acreage to an appropriate type of insured dry peas, if it is practical, and receive a replanting payment in accordance with the terms of section 11. By doing so, coverage will continue under the terms of the Basic Provisions, these Crop Provisions and this option, and the production guarantee for the dry pea type planted in the fall will remain in effect; or
(3) Destroy the remaining crop on such acreage:
(i) By destroying the remaining crop, you agree to accept an appraised amount of production determined in accordance with section 13(d)(1) of these Crop Provisions to count against the unit production guarantee. This amount will be considered production to count in determining any final indemnity on the unit and will be used to settle your claim as described in section 13.
(ii) You may use such acreage for any purpose, including planting and separately insuring any other crop if such insurance is available.
(iii) If you elect to plant and elect to insure spring-planted dry pea acreage of the same dry pea type (you must elect whether or not you want insurance on the spring-planted acreage of the same dry pea type at the time we release the fall-planted acreage), you must pay additional premium for insurance. Such acreage will be insured in accordance with the policy provisions that are applicable to acreage that is initially planted in the spring to the same dry pea type, and you must:
(A) Plant the spring-planted acreage in a manner which results in a clear and discernable break in the planting pattern at the boundary between it and any remaining acreage of the fall-planted dry pea acreage; and
(B) Store or market the production in a manner which permits us to verify the amount of spring-planted production separately from any fall-planted production. In the event you are unable to provide records of production that are acceptable to us, the spring-planted acreage will be considered to be a part of the original fall-planted unit.
[62 FR 65744, Dec. 16, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 36157, July 2, 1998; 67 FR 55691, Aug. 30, 2002; 73 FR 51582, Sept. 4, 2008; 75 FR 15888, Mar. 30, 2010; 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016; 85 FR 38279, June 26, 2020; 85 FR 76428, Nov. 30, 2020; 86 FR 11091, Feb. 24, 2021; 86 FR 33083, June 24, 2021; 89 FR 53841, June 27, 2024]
§ 457.141
Rice crop insurance provisions.
The Rice Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2020 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies

# Rice Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Flood irrigation.
An irrigated practice commonly used for rice production whereby the planted acreage is intentionally covered with water that is maintained at a uniform and shallow depth throughout the growing season.
Harvest.
Combining or threshing the rice for grain. A crop that is swathed prior to combining is not considered harvested.
Local market price.
The cash price per pound for the U.S. No. 3 grade of rough rice offered by buyers in the area in which you normally market the rice. Factors not associated with grading under the United States Standards for Rice including, but not limited to, protein and oil content or milling quality will not be considered.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, land on which there is uniform placement of an adequate amount of rice seed into a prepared seedbed by one of the following methods (Acreage seeded in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(a) Drill seeding—Using a grain drill to incorporate the seed to a proper soil depth;
(b) Broadcast seeding—Distributing seed evenly onto the surface of an un-flooded seedbed followed by either timely mechanical incorporation of the seed to a proper soil depth in the seedbed or flushing the seedbed with water; or
(c) Broadcast seeding into a controlled flood—Distributing the rice seed onto a prepared seedbed that has been intentionally covered to a proper depth by water. The water must be free of movement and be completely contained on the acreage by properly constructed levees and gates.
Saline water.
Water that contains a concentration of salt sufficient to cause damage to the insured crop.
Second crop rice.
The regrowth of a stand of rice following harvest of the initially insured rice crop that can be harvested in the same crop year.
Swathed.
Severance of the stem and grain head from the ground without removal of the rice kernels from the plant and placing in a windrow.
Total milling yield.
Rice production consisting of heads, second heads, screenings, and brewer's rice as defined by the official United States Standards for Rice.

# 2. Unit Division
Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you must elect to insure your rice with either revenue protection or yield protection by the sales closing date.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State and county
Cancellation and
termination date
Jackson, Victoria, Goliad, Bee, Live Oak, McMullen, La Salle, and Dimmit Counties, Texas; and all Texas Counties south thereof;
January 31.
Florida
February 15.
Illinois and Missouri
March 15.
All other states
February 28.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the rice in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents or by written agreement:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That is planted for harvest as grain;
(c) That is flood irrigated unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions; and
(d) That is not wild rice.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) We will not insure any acreage planted to rice:
(1) The preceding crop year unless allowed by the Special Provisions; or
(2) That does not meet the rotation requirements shown in the Special Provisions; and
(b) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.

# 8. Insurance Period
In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is October 31 immediately following planting.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions (except drought);
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption;
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply if caused by an insured cause of loss specified in sections 9(a)(1) through (7), drought, or the intrusion of saline water; or
(9) For revenue protection, a change in the harvest price from the projected price, unless FCIC can prove the price change was the direct result of an uninsured cause of loss specified in section 12(a) of the Basic Provisions.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss not insured against in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any loss of production due to the application of saline water, except as specified in section 9(a)(8) of these crop provisions.

# 10. Replanting Payment
(a) A replanting payment is allowed as follows:
(1) In lieu of provisions in section 13 of the Basic Provisions that limit the amount of a replant payment to the actual cost of replanting, the amount of any replanting payment will be determined in accordance with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Except as specified in section 10(a)(1), you must comply with all requirements regarding replanting payments contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions;
(3) The insured crop must be damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage; and
(4) The replanted crop must be seeded at a rate that is normal for initially planted rice (if new seed is planted at a reduced seeding rate into a partially damaged stand of rice, the acreage will not be eligible for a replanting payment).
(b) Unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions, the amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 20 percent of the production guarantee or 400 pounds, multiplied by your projected price, multiplied by your share.
(c) When the crop is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable for an original planting, the liability on the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
Representative samples are required in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production that are acceptable to us for any:
(1) Optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or
(2) Basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the number of insured acres by your respective:
(i) Yield protection guarantee (per acre) if you elected yield protection; or
(ii) Revenue protection guarantee (per acre) if you elected revenue protection;
(2) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(1)(i) or 12(b)(1)(ii), whichever is applicable;
(3) Multiplying the production to count by your:
(i) Projected price if you elected yield protection; or
(ii) Harvest price if you elected revenue protection;
(4) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(3)(i) or 12(b)(3)(ii), whichever is applicable;
(5) Subtracting the result of section 12(b)(4) from the result of section 12(b)(2); and
(6) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(5) by your share.
For example:
You have 100 percent share in 50 acres of rice in the unit with a production guarantee (per acre) of 3,750 pounds, your projected price is $.0750, your harvest price is $.0700, and your production to count is 150,000 pounds.
If you elected yield protection:
(1) 50 acres × (3,750 pound production guarantee × $.0750 projected price) = $14,062.50 value of the production guarantee
(3) 150,000 pound production to count × $.0750 projected price = $11,250.00 value of the production to count
(5) $14,062.50 − $11,250.00 = $2,812.50
(6) $2,812.50 × 1.000 share = $2,813.00 indemnity; or
If you elected revenue protection:
(1) 50 acres × (3,750 pound production guarantee × $.0750 projected price) = $14,062.50 revenue protection guarantee
(3) 150,000 pound production to count × $.0700 harvest price = $10,500.00 value of the production to count
(5) $14,062.50 − $10,500.00 = $3,562.50
(6) $3,562.50 × 1.000 share = $3,563.00 indemnity.
(c) The total production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) For yield protection, not less than the production guarantee and for revenue protection, not less than the amount of production that when multiplied by the harvest price equals the revenue protection guarantee (per acre) for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 12(d));
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage, including any production from a second rice crop harvested in the same crop year.
(d) Mature rough rice may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. If moisture adjustment is applicable, it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality.
(1) Production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of 12 percent. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if:
(i) Deficiencies in quality, in accordance with the Official United States Standards for Rice, result in rice not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 3 (grades U.S. No. 4 or worse) because of red rice, chalky kernels or damaged kernels;
(ii) The rice has a total milling yield of less than 68 pounds per hundredweight;
(iii) The whole kernel weight is less than 55 pounds per hundredweight of milled rice for medium and short grain varieties;
(iv) The whole kernel weight is less than 48 pounds per hundredweight of milled rice for long grain varieties; or
(v) Substances or conditions are present that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health.
(3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss only if:
(i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions specified in section 12(d)(2) resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these crop provisions and which occurs within the insurance period;
(ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions specified in section 12(d)(2) result in a net price for the damaged production that is less than the local market price;
(iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions specified in section 12(d)(2) are made using samples of the production obtained by us or by a disinterested third party approved by us;
(iv) With regard to deficiencies in quality (except test weight, which may be determined by our loss adjuster), the samples are analyzed by:
(A) A grader licensed under the United States Agricultural Marketing Act or the United States Warehouse Act;
(B) A grader licensed under State law and employed by a warehouse operator who has a storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation; or
(C) A grader not licensed under State law, but who is employed by a warehouse operator who has a commodity storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation and is in compliance with State law regarding warehouses; and
(v) With regard to substances or conditions injurious to human or animal health, the samples are analyzed by a laboratory approved by us.
(4) Rice production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in sections 12(d) (2) and (3), will be reduced as follows:
(i) In accordance with quality adjustment factors contained in the Special Provisions; or
(ii) If quality adjustment factors are not contained in the Special Provisions, as follows:
(A) The market price of the qualifying damaged production and the local market price will be determined on the earlier of the date such quality adjusted production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit. The price for the qualifying damaged production will be the market price for the local area to the extent feasible. Discounts used to establish the net price of the damaged production will be limited to those that are usual, customary, and reasonable. The price will not be reduced for:
(
1
) Moisture content;
(
2
) Damage due to uninsured causes; or
(
3
) Drying, handling, processing, or any other costs associated with normal harvesting, handling, and marketing of the rice; except, if the price of the damaged production can be increased by conditioning, we may reduce the price of the production after it has been conditioned by the cost of conditioning but not lower than the value of the production before conditioning,
(We may obtain prices from any buyer of our choice. If we obtain prices from one or more buyers located outside your local market area, we will reduce such prices by the additional costs required to deliver the rice to those buyers.);
(B) The value of the damaged or conditioned production will be divided by the local market price to determine the quality adjustment factor; and
(C) The number of pounds remaining after any reduction due to excessive moisture (the moisture-adjusted gross pounds (if appropriate)) of the damaged or conditioned production will then be multiplied by the quality adjustment factor to determine the net production to count.
(e) Any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on a weight basis.

# 13. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 28310, May 23, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65174, Dec. 10, 1997; 65 FR 56774, Sept. 20, 2000; 67 FR 55691, Aug. 30, 2002; 75 FR 15888, 15889, Mar. 30, 2010; 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016; 84 FR 64413, Nov. 22, 2019]
§ 457.142
Northern potato crop insurance provisions.
The Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of November 30, and for the 2026 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of April 30, June 30, and September 30, are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Northern Potato Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Northern Potato Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.
These provisions will be applicable in: Alaska; Humboldt, Modoc, and Siskiyou Counties, California; Colorado; Connecticut; Idaho; Indiana; Iowa; Kansas; Maine; Massachusetts; Michigan; Minnesota; Montana; Nebraska; Nevada; San Juan County, New Mexico; New York; North Dakota; Ohio; Oregon; Pennsylvania; Rhode Island; South Dakota; Utah; Washington; Wisconsin; and Wyoming; and any other states or counties if allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 1. Definitions
Buyer.
A business entity in the business of buying or processing potatoes, that possesses all the licenses and permits required by the
state in which it operates, and has the facilities to accept the potatoes purchased.
Certified seed.
Potatoes that were entered into the potato certified seed program and that meet all requirements for production to be used to produce a seed crop for the next crop year or a potato crop for harvest for commercial uses in the next crop year.
Discard.
Disposal of production by you, or a person acting for you, without receiving any value for it.
Disposed.
Any disposition of the crop including but not limited to sale or discard.
Grade inspection.
An inspection in which samples of production are obtained by us, or a party approved by us, prior to the sale, storage, or disposal of any lot of potatoes, or any portion of a lot and the potatoes are evaluated and quality (grade) determinations are made by us, a laboratory approved by us, or a potato grader licensed or certified by the applicable State or the United States Department of Agriculture, in accordance with the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes. The United States standards used to determine the quality (grade) deficiencies will be: for potatoes produced for chipping, the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes for Chipping; for potatoes produced for processing, the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes for Processing; for potatoes produced for seed, the United States Standards for Grades of Seed Potatoes; and for all other potatoes, the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes. The quantity and number of samples required will be determined in accordance with procedure issued by FCIC.
Harvest.
Lifting potatoes from within the soil to the soil surface.
Hundredweight.
One hundred (100) pounds avoirdupois.
Local market.
The area in which the insured potatoes are normally sold.
Lot.
A quantity of production that can be separated from other quantities of production by grade characteristics, load, location or other distinctive features.
Potato certified seed program.
The state program administered by a public agency responsible for the seed certification process within the state in which the seed is produced.
Tuber rot.
Any soft, mushy, or leaky condition of potato tissue (soft rot or wet breakdown as defined in the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes), including, but not limited to, breakdown caused by Southern Bacterial Wilt, Ring Rot, or Late Blight.

# 2. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one price election for all the potatoes in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type. If the actuarial documents provide for different price elections by type, you may select one price election for each potato type designated in the actuarial documents. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) If the production from any acreage of the insured crop is not harvested, the price used to determine your indemnity will be 90 percent of your price election. This requirement is not applicable to the certified seed endorsement price election.
(c) The price election for unharvested acreage will apply to any acreage of potatoes damaged to the extent that similarly situated producers in the area would not normally care for the potatoes even if you choose to continue to care for or harvest them. Potatoes that are lifted to the soil surface and not removed from the field will also receive the price election for unharvested acreage.

# 3. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 4. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are March 15.

# 5. Annual Premium
In lieu of the premium computation method contained in section 7 of the Basic Provisions, the annual premium amount (y) is computed by multiplying (a) the production guarantee by (b) the price election for harvested acreage, by (c) the premium rate, by (d) the insured acreage, by (e) your share at the time of planting, and by (f) any applicable premium adjustment factors contained in the actuarial documents (a × b × c × d × e × f = y).

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the potatoes in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) Planted with certified seed (unless otherwise permitted by the Special Provisions);
(c) Planted for harvest as certified seed stock, or for human consumption, (unless specified otherwise in the Special Provisions);
(d) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(1) Interplanted with another crop; or
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In addition to section 9 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any acreage that:
(a) Does not meet the rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions for the crop; or
(b) Is damaged before the final planting date to the extent that similarly situated producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, unless it is replanted or we agree that it is not practical to replant.

# 8. Insurance Period
In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the date immediately following planting as follows (exceptions, if any, for specific counties, varieties or types are contained in the Special Provisions):
(a) October 1 in Alaska;
(b) October 10 in Nebraska and Wyoming;
(c) October 15 in Colorado; Indiana; Iowa; Michigan; Minnesota; Montana; Nevada; North Dakota; South Dakota; Utah; and Wisconsin;
(d) October 20 in Maine;
(e) October 25 in Kansas; and
(f) October 31 in Humboldt, Modoc, and Siskiyou Counties, California; Connecticut; Idaho; Massachusetts; San Juan County, New Mexico; New York; Ohio; Oregon; Pennsylvania; Rhode Island; and Washington.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but only if sufficient and proper pest control measures are used;
(4) Plant disease, but only if sufficient and proper disease control measures are used;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period (see section 9(a)(1) through (7)).
(b) In addition to the causes of loss not insured against as contained in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any loss of production due to:
(1) Damage that occurs or becomes evident after the end of the insurance period, including, but not limited to, damage that occurs or becomes evident in storage; or
(2) Causes, such as freeze after certain dates, as limited by the Special Provisions.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must leave representative samples at least 10 feet wide and extending the entire length of each field in the unit if you are going to destroy any acreage of the insured crop that will not be harvested.
(b) We must be given the opportunity to perform a grade inspection on the production from any unit for which you have given notice of damage.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable production records were not provided; and
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee (if there is unharvested acreage in the unit, the harvested and unharvested acreage will be determined separately);
(2) Multiplying each result in section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election (the price election may be limited as specified in section 2);
(3) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each type, if applicable (see section 11(d)), by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the results of section 11(b)(5) from the result in section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 11(b)(6) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 100 harvested acres of potatoes in the unit, with a guarantee of 150 hundredweight per acre and a price election of $4.00 per hundredweight. You are only able to harvest 10,000 hundredweight. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 150 hundredweight = 15,000 hundredweight guarantee;
(2) 15,000 hundredweight × $4.00 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee;
(4) 10,000 hundredweight × $4.00 price election = $40,000.00 value of production to count;
(6) $60,000.00 − $40,000.00 = $20,000.00 loss; and
(7) $20,000.00 × 100 percent = $20,000.00 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 100 unharvested acres of potatoes in the same unit, with a guarantee of 150 hundredweight
per acre and a price election of $3.60 per hundredweight. (The price election for unharvested acreage is 90.0 percent of your elected price election ($4.00 × 0.90 = $3.60.)) This unharvested acreage was appraised at 35 hundredweight per acre for a total of 3500 hundredweight as production to count. Your total indemnity for the harvested and unharvested acreage would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 150 hundredweight = 15,000 hundredweight guarantee for the harvested acreage, and
100 acres × 150 hundredweight = 15,000 hundredweight guarantee for the unharvested acreage;
(2) 15,000 hundredweight guarantee × $4.00 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee for the harvested acreage, and
15,000 hundredweight guarantee × $3.60 price election = $54,000.00 value of guarantee for the unharvested acreage;
(3) $60,000.00 + $54,000.00 = $114,000.00 total value of guarantee;
(4) 10,000 hundredweight × $4.00 price election = $40,000.00 value of production to count for the harvested acreage, and 3500 hundredweight × $3.60 = $12,600.00 value of production to count for the unharvested acreage;
(5) $40,000.00 + $12,600.00 = $52,600.00 total value of production to count;
(6) $114,000.00 − $52,600.00 = $61,400.00 loss; and
(7) $61,400.00 loss × 100 percent = $61,400.00 indemnity payment.
(c) The extent of any quality loss must be determined based on samples obtained no later than the time the potatoes are placed in storage, if the production is stored prior to sale, or the date they are delivered to a buyer, wholesaler, packer, broker, or other handler if production is not stored.
(d) The total production to count (in hundredweight) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes;
(D) From which any production is disposed of without a grade inspection; or
(E) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Production lost due to harvest prior to full maturity. Production to count from such acreage will be determined by increasing the amount of harvested production by 2 percent per day for each day the potatoes were harvested prior to the date the potatoes would have reached full maturity. The date the potatoes would have reached full maturity will be considered to be 45 days prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions. This adjustment will not be made if the potatoes are damaged by an insurable cause of loss, and leaving the crop in the field would either reduce production or decrease quality;
(iv) Unharvested production, including unharvested production on insured acreage you intend to put to another use or abandon, or acreage damaged by insurable causes and for which you cease to provide further care, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or cease providing care for the crop. This unharvested production may be adjusted in accordance with sections 11(e), (f), and (g); and the value of all unharvested production will be calculated using the reduced price election determined in section 2(b). If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The price used to determine the amount of any indemnity will be limited as specified in section 2 even if the representative samples are harvested. The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage (the amount of production prior to the sorting or discarding of any production).
(e) Potato production is eligible for quality adjustment if:
(1) The potatoes have freeze damage or tuber rot that is evident at, or prior to, the end of the insurance period; and
(2) A grade inspection is completed no later than 21 days after the end of insurance period (if the Northern Potato Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable, samples must be obtained within 60 days after the end of insurance period and quality (grade) determinations must be completed within 21 days of sampling; and
(3) Prior to any grade inspection, you must notify us of the intended use of the potatoes so the appropriate United States standards will be applied (We may request previous sales records to verify your claimed intended use or base the intended use on the type of potato grown if such potatoes are not usually grown for the intended use you reported).
(f) Potato production to count that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in section 11(e), with 5 percent damage or less (by weight) will be adjusted 0.1 percent for each 0.1 percent of damage through 5.0 percent.
(g) Potato production to count that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in section 11(e), with 5.1 percent damage or more (by weight) will be determined as follows:
(1) If a price is agreed upon between you and a buyer within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Storage Coverage endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, or the production is delivered to a buyer within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production will be determined by:
(i) Dividing the price per hundredweight received or that will be received by the highest price election designated in the actuarial documents for the insured potato type (if the production is sold for a price lower than the value appropriate to and representative of the local market, we will determine the value of the production based on the price you could have received in the local market); and
(ii) Multiplying the result (not to exceed 1.0) by the number of hundredweight of sold or to be sold production (We may verify this after the production has actually been sold); or
(2) If a price is not agreed upon between you and a buyer and the production is not delivered within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable) after the end of the insurance period, and that remain in storage 22 or more days (61 or more days if the Northern Potato Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production will be the greater of:
(i) The amount determined by:
(A) Dividing the price per hundredweight that is received, or will be received after the end of the applicable insurance period, by the highest price election designated in the Special Provisions or addendum thereto for the insured potato type (if the production is sold for a price lower than the value appropriate to and representative of the local market, we will determine the value of the production based on the price you could have received in the local market); and
(B) Multiplying the result of section 11(g)(2)(i)(A) (not to exceed 1.0) by the number of hundredweight of sold or to be sold production (We may verify this after the production has actually been sold); or
(ii) The amount of production determined by:
(A) Reducing any harvested or appraised production:
(
1
) By 0.1 percent for each 0.1 percent damage through 5.0 percent;
(
2
) By 0.5 percent for each 0.1 percent of damage from 5.1 percent through 6.0 percent;
(
3
) By 1.0 percent for each 0.1 percent of damage from 6.1 through 13.5 percent; or
(B) Including 15 percent of the production when damage is in excess of 13.5 percent.
(iii) For any production discarded:
(A) Within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production to count will be:
(
1
) Zero if we determine the production could not have been sold; or
(
2
) Determined in accordance with section 11(g)(2)(ii) if we determine the production could have been sold; or
(B) Later than 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production to count will be adjusted in accordance with section 11(g)(2)(ii).

# 12. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 65331, Dec. 12, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 61282, Oct. 30, 2007; 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016; 89 FR 53842, June 27, 2024; 89 FR 93468, Nov. 27, 2024]
§ 457.143
Northern potato crop insurance—quality endorsement.
The Northern Potato Crop Insurance Quality Endorsement Provisions for the 2022 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Northern Potato Crop Insurance Quality Endorsement

# 1. Definitions
Percentage factor.
The historical average percentage of potatoes grading U.S. No. 2 or better, by type, determined from your records. If at least 4 continuous years of records are available, the percentage factor will be the simple average of the available records not to exceed 10 years. If less than 4 years of records are available, the percentage factor will be determined based on a combination of your records and the percentage factor contained in the Special Provisions so that such a combination would be the functional equivalent of 4 years of records.
2. The additional premium amount for this coverage will be determined by multiplying the number of your insured planted acres of potatoes by the premium rate for this Endorsement contained in the actuarial documents. In return for payment of the additional premium designated in the actuarial documents, this Endorsement is attached to and made part of your Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions subject to the terms and conditions described herein. In the event of a conflict between the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and this Endorsement, this Endorsement will control.
3. You must elect this endorsement on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year in which you wish to insure your potatoes under this endorsement. This endorsement will continue in effect until canceled. It may be canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice to the other party on or before the cancellation date.
4. All acreage of potatoes insured under the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions will be insured under this endorsement except:
(a) Any acreage specifically excluded by the actuarial documents; and
(b) Any acreage grown for seed.
5. We will adjust the production to count determined in accordance with section 15 of the Basic Provisions and section 11 of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions for potatoes that do not meet U.S. No. 2 grade requirements from unharvested acreage or harvested acreage that is stored or is marketed after a grade inspection due to:
(a) Internal defects as long as the number of potatoes with such defects are in excess of the tolerances allowed for the U.S. No. 2 grade potatoes on a lot basis and are not separable from undamaged production using methods used by the packers or processors to whom you normally deliver your potato production as follows:
(1) If a price is agreed upon between you and a buyer within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable) after the end of the insurance period, or the production is delivered to a buyer within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable) after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production will be determined by (adjustment under section 5(a)(1) or 5(a)(2)(i) will not be performed if it already has been performed under the terms of section 11(g) of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions):
(i) Dividing the price received or that will be received per hundredweight by the highest price election designated in the actuarial documents for the insured potato type (if the production is sold for a price lower than the value appropriate to and representative of the local market, we will determine the value of the production based on the price you could have received in the local market); and
(ii) Multiplying the result (not to exceed 1.0) by the number of hundredweight of sold or to be sold production (We may verify this after the production has actually been sold); or
(2) If a price is not agreed upon between you and a buyer and the production is not delivered within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable) after the end of the insurance period, and the potatoes remain in storage 22 or more days (61 or more days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production will be the greater of:
(i) The amount of production determined by:
(A) Dividing the price per hundredweight that is received, or will be received after the end of the applicable insurance period, by the highest price election designated in the actuarial documents for the insured potato type (if the production is sold for a price lower than the value appropriate to and representative of the local market, we will determine the value of the production based on the price you could have received in the local market); and
(B) Multiplying the result of section 5(a)(2)(i)(A) (not to exceed 1.0) by the number of hundredweight of sold or to be sold production (We may verify this after the production has actually been sold); or
(ii) The amount of production determined as follows:
(A) The combined weight of sampled potatoes grading U.S. No. 2 or better (the amount of potatoes grading U.S. No. 2 will be based on a grade inspection completed no later than 21 days after the end of the insurance period (if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), samples must be obtained within 60 days after the end of the insurance period and a grade inspection completed within 21 days of sampling) and are damaged by freeze or tuber rot will be divided by the total sample weight;
(B) The percentage determined in section 5(a)(2)(ii)(A) will be divided by the applicable percentage factor; and
(C) The result of section 5(a)(2)(ii)(B) will be multiplied by the amount of production to count determined in accordance with section 15 of the Basic Provisions and section 11 of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions.
(b) Factors other than those specified in section 5(a), in accordance with section 5(a)(2)(ii).
6. For any production that qualifies for adjustment in accordance with section 5(a) and that is discarded:
(a) Within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production to count will be:
(1) Zero if we determine the production could not have been sold; or
(2) Determined in accordance with section 5(a)(2)(ii) if we determine the production could have been sold; or
(b) Later than 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production to count will be adjusted in accordance with section 5(a)(2)(ii).
7. Potatoes harvested or appraised prior to full maturity that do not grade U.S. No. 2 due solely to size will be considered to have met U.S. No. 2 standards unless the potatoes are damaged by an insurable cause of loss and leaving the crop in the field would either reduce production or decrease quality.
8. Production to count for potatoes destroyed, stored, or marketed without a grade inspection will be 100 percent of the gross weight of such potatoes.
9. All determinations must be based upon a grade inspection.
10. The actuarial documents may provide “U.S. No. 1 grade” in place of “U.S. No. 2 grade” as used in this endorsement.
(a) If both U.S. No.1 and U.S. No. 2 grades are available in the Special Provisions, you may elect U.S. No. 1 or 2 grade by potato type or group, if separate types or groups are specified in the Special Provisions.
(b) If both fresh and processing types are specified in the actuarial documents, you cannot elect the fresh type for any potatoes grown for processing or chipping.
[62 FR 65335, Dec. 12, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 61283, Oct. 30, 2007; 86 FR 22842, Apr. 30, 2021]
§ 457.144
Northern potato crop insurance—processing quality endorsement.
The Northern Potato Crop Insurance Processing Quality Endorsement Provisions for the 2022 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# 1. Definitions
Broker.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in the buying and selling of processing potatoes, that possesses all licenses and permits as required by the state in which it operates, and when required, has the necessary facilities or the contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and transfer processing potatoes to the broker within a reasonable amount of time after harvest or the typical storage period.
Percentage factor.
The term as defined in the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in processing potatoes for human consumption, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing potatoes required by the state in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process processing potatoes grown under a processing contract within a reasonable amount of time after harvest or the typical storage period.
Processor contract.
A written agreement between the producer and processor, or between a producer and a broker, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow processing potatoes, and to deliver the potato production to the processor or broker;
(b) The processor's or broker's commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processing contract; and
(c) A price or pricing mechanism to determine the value of delivered production.
2. To be eligible for coverage under this endorsement, you must have a:
(a) Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement in place and elect this endorsement on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year in which you wish to insure your potatoes under this endorsement:
(1) Cancellation of your Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement will
automatically result in cancellation of this endorsement;
(2) This endorsement may be canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice to the other party on or before the cancellation date; and
(b) Processor contract executed with a processor or broker for the potato types insured under this endorsement that is applicable for the crop year:
(1) A copy of the processor contract must be submitted to us on or before the acreage reporting date for potatoes; and
(2) Failure to timely provide the processor contract will result in no coverage under this endorsement and coverage will be provided only under the terms of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement.
3. The additional premium amount for this coverage will be determined by multiplying the number of your insured planted acres of potatoes by the premium rate for this Endorsement contained in the actuarial documents. In return for payment of the additional premium designated in the actuarial documents, this Endorsement is attached to and made part of your Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement subject to the terms and conditions described herein. In the event of a conflict between the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions or Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement and this Endorsement, this Endorsement will control.
4. All terms of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement not modified by this endorsement will be applicable to acreage covered under this endorsement.
5. If you elect this endorsement, all insurable acreage of production under contract with the processor or broker must be insured under this endorsement; however:
(a) When the processor contract requires the processor or broker to purchase a stated amount of production, rather than all of the production from a stated number of acres, the insurable acres will be determined by dividing the stated amount of production by the approved yield for the acreage; and
(b) The number of acres insured under this endorsement will not exceed the actual number of acres planted to the potato types needed to fulfill the contract.
6. Potato lots may be adjusted in accordance with section 8 if such potatoes:
(a) Fail to meet the standards in section 7(a), (b), (c), or (d), or a standard contained in the processor contract, for the same quality factors specified in section 7(a), (b), (c), or (d), if such standard is less stringent;
(b) Have a value less than the maximum price election; and
(c) Fail to meet the applicable standards and are not separable from undamaged production using methods used by processors to whom you normally deliver your potato production.
7. To qualify for a quality reduction under this endorsement, the potatoes must:
(a) Fail to meet the applicable U.S. No. 2 grade requirements due to internal defects as long as the number of potatoes with such defects are in excess of the tolerance allowed for U.S. No. 2 grade potatoes;
(b) Have a specific gravity lower than 1.074;
(c) Have a fry color of No. 3 or darker due to either sugar exceeding 10 percent or sugar ends exceeding 19 percent; or
(d) Have an Agtron rating lower than 58.
8. In lieu of the provisions contained in section 5 of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement, production to count determined in accordance with section 15 of the Basic Provisions and section 11 of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions, from unharvested acreage or harvested acreage that is stored or is marketed after a grade inspection determined in section 10, will be adjusted in accordance with sections 8(a) or 8(b), whichever is applicable, (adjustment under section 8(a) or 8(b)(1) will not be performed if it already has been performed under the terms of section 11(g) of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions):
(a) If a price is agreed upon between you and a buyer within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsementis applicable) after the end of the insurance period, or the production is delivered to a buyer within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production will be determined by:
(1) Dividing the price per hundredweight received or that will be received by the highest price election designated in the actuarial documents for the insured potato type (If the production is sold for a price lower than the value appropriate to and representative of the local market, we will determine the value of the production based on the price you could have received in the local market); and
(2) Multiplying the result of section 8(a)(1) (not to exceed 1.0) by the number of hundredweight of sold or to be sold production (We may verify this after the production has actually been sold); or
(b) If a price is not agreed upon between you and a buyer and the production is not delivered within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsementis applicable), after the end of the insurance period, and the production remains in storage 22 or more days (61 or more days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance
period, the amount of production will be the greater of:
(1) The amount of production determined by:
(i) Dividing the price per hundredweight that is received, or that will later be received after the end of the applicable insurance period, by the highest price election designated in the actuarial documents for the insured potato type (if the production is sold for a price lower than the value appropriate to and representative of the local market, we will determine the value of the production based on the price you could have received in the local market); and
(ii) Multiplying the result of section 8(b)(1)(i) (not to exceed 1.0) by the number of hundredweight of sold or to be sold production (We may verify this after the production has actually been sold); or
(2) The amount of production determined as follows:
(i) The combined weight of sampled potatoes that grade U.S. No. 2 or better (the amount of potatoes grading U.S. No. 2 or better will be based on a grade inspection completed no later than 21 days after the end of the insurance period, if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable; samples must be obtained within 60 days after the end of the insurance period and grade inspection completed within 21 days of sampling) and are damaged by freeze or tuber rot will be divided by the total sample weight;
(
A
) The percentage determined in section 8(b)(2)(i) will be divided by the applicable percentage factor; and
(B) The result of section 8(b)(2)(i)(A) will be multiplied by the amount of production to count determined in accordance with section 15 of the Basic Provisions and section 11 of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions.
(c) The production to count for potatoes that have a value less than the maximum price election due to factors other than those specified in section 7 will be adjusted in accordance with section 8(b)(2).
9. For any production that qualifies for adjustment in accordance with section 7 and that is discarded:
(a) Within 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production to count will be:
(1) Zero if we determine the production could not have been sold; or
(2) Determined in accordance with section 8(b)(2) if we determine the production could have been sold; or
(b) Later than 21 days (60 days if the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement is applicable), after the end of the insurance period, the amount of production to count will be adjusted in accordance with section 8(b)(2).
10. All quality determinations must be based upon a grade inspection using the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes for Processing or the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes for Chipping.
11. The actuarial documents may provide “U.S. No. 1 grade” in place of “U.S. No. 2 grade” as used in this endorsement. If both U.S. No. 1 and 2 grades are available in the actuarial documents, you may elect U.S. No. 1 or 2 grade by potato type or group, if separate types or groups are specified in the Special Provisions.
[72 FR 61284, Oct. 30, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 22842, Apr. 30, 2021]
§ 457.145
Northern potato crop insurance—certified seed endorsement.
The Northern Potato Crop Insurance Certified Seed Endorsement Provisions for the 2022 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Potato Crop Insurance Certified Seed Endorsement
1. The additional premium amount for this coverage will be determined by multiplying the number of your insured planted acres of certified seed potatoes by the premium rate for this Endorsement contained in the actuarial documents. In return for payment of the additional premium designated in the actuarial documents, this Endorsement is attached to and made part of your Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions subject to the terms and conditions described herein. In accordance with section 8, since your insurance period is not extended in this Endorsement, any additional premium paid for coverage under the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Storage Coverage Endorsement will not apply to the additional coverage provided under the terms of this Endorsement. In the event of a conflict between the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and this Endorsement, this Endorsement will control.
2. You must elect this endorsement on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year you wish to insure your potatoes under this endorsement. This endorsement will continue in effect until canceled. It may
be canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice to the other party on or before the cancellation date.
3. All potatoes grown on insurable acreage and that are entered into the potato seed certification program administered by the state in which the seed is grown must be insured unless limited by section 4 below.
4. Your certified seed production guarantee per-acre will be the per-acre production guarantee used to cover the same acreage under the terms of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions. However, unless a written agreement provides otherwise, if the total amount of insurable certified seed acreage you have for the current crop year is greater than 125 percent of your average number of acres entered into and passing certification in the potato certified seed program in the three previous calendar years, your certified seed production guarantee for each unit will be reduced as follows:
(a) Multiply the average number of your acres entered into and passing certification in the potato certified seed program the 3 previous calendar years by 1.25 and divide this result by the number of acres grown by you for certified seed in the current crop year; and
(b) Multiply the result of section 4(a) (not to exceed 1.0) by the production guarantee for certified seed for the current crop year.
5. You must provide acceptable records of your certified seed potato acreage and production for the previous three years. These records must clearly indicate the number of your acres entered into the potato seed certification program administered by the state in which the seed is grown.
6. All potatoes insured for certified seed production must be produced and managed in accordance with the regulations, standards, practices, and procedures required for certification under the potato certified seed program. Any production that does not qualify as certified seed because of varietal mixing or your failure to meet any requirements under the potato certified seed program will be considered as lost due to uninsured causes.
7. If, due to insurable causes occurring within the insurance period, the amount of certified seed you produce is less than your certified seed production guarantee, we will settle your claim by:
(a) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective certified seed production guarantee;
(b) Multiplying each result in section 7(a) by the dollar amount per hundredweight contained in the actuarial documents for production covered under this endorsement;
(c) Totaling the results of section 7(b);
(d) Multiplying the number of hundredweight of production that qualify as certified seed and any amount of production lost due to uninsured causes, or that does not qualify as certified seed due to uninsured causes, by the dollar amount per hundredweight contained in the actuarial documents for production covered under this endorsement;
(e) Subtracting the result of section 7(d) from the result of section 7(c); and
(f) Multiplying the result of section 7(e) by your share.
8. You must notify us of any loss under this endorsement not later than 14 days after you receive notice from the state certification agency that any acreage or production has failed certification. Nothing herein extends the insurance period beyond the time period specified in section 8 of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and section 11 of the Basic Provisions. In lieu of the provisions in section 14(c) of the Basic Provisions specifying that any claim for indemnity must be filed not later than 60 days after the end of the insurance period, your claim for indemnity must be filed by the later of:
(a) Sixty (60) days after the end of the insurance period; or
(b) Thirty (30) days after you receive notice from the state certifying agency that production has failed certification.
9. Acreage covered under the terms of this endorsement will have the same unit structure as provided under the Basic Provisions and the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions. For example, if you have two optional units (00101 and 00102) under your Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and you elect this endorsement, you will also have two optional units (00201 and 00202) for certified seed coverage, provided that certified seed is grown in both units 00101 and 00102. Or, if you have two basic units (00100 and 00200) under your Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and you elect this endorsement, you will also have two basic units (00300 and 00400) for certified seed coverage, provided that certified seed is grown in both units 00100 and 00200. In the event certified seed acreage is not grown in the same optional or basic units as acreage covered under the Basic Provisions and the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions, certified seed units will be established in accordance with the unit division provisions contained in the Basic Provisions and the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions. For example, if a basic unit is divided into two optional units for potato acreage covered under the Basic Provisions and the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions, but certified seed is grown in only one of those optional units, the certified seed acreage will be insured as one basic unit.
10. Failure to meet any requirements for seed to be used to produce a subsequent seed crop will not be covered. All the production that meets requirements for certified seed
used to produce a commercial crop will be included in production to count.
[62 FR 65337, Dec. 12, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 71271, Dec. 21, 1999; 72 FR 61286, Oct. 30, 2007; 86 FR 22842, Apr. 30, 2021]
§ 457.146
Northern potato crop insurance—storage coverage endorsement.
The Northern Potato Crop Insurance Storage Coverage Endorsement Provisions for the 2022 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Northern Potato Crop Insurance Storage Coverage Endorsement
1. The additional premium amount for this coverage will be determined by multiplying the number of your insured planted acres of potatoes by the premium rate for this Endorsement contained in the actuarial documents. In return for payment of the required additional premium as contained in the actuarial documents, this Endorsement is attached to and made part of your Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions subject to the terms and conditions described herein. In the event of a conflict between the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions and this Endorsement, this Endorsement will control.
2. You must elect this endorsement on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year in which you wish to insure your potatoes under this endorsement. This endorsement will continue in effect until canceled. It may be canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice to the other party on or before the cancellation date.
3. Potato production grown under a contract that requires the production to be delivered to a buyer within three days of harvest will not be insured under this endorsement. When such contract requires delivery of a stated amount of production, rather than all of the production from a stated amount of acres, the number of acres not insured under this endorsement will be determined by dividing the stated amount of production by the approved yield for the acreage. All other potato production insured under the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions must be insured under this endorsement unless the Special Provisions allow you to exclude certain potato varieties, types, or groups from this endorsement, and you elect to exercise this option. If you elect this endorsement, such exclusions must be shown annually on your acreage report and will be applicable to all acreage of the excluded varieties, types, or groups for the crop year.
4. When production from separate insurance units, basic or optional, is commingled in storage, the production to count for each unit will be allocated pro rata based on the production placed in storage from each unit. Such allocation will be allowed only if verifiable records of production placed in storage are available by unit. If you do not have verifiable records, all units without verifiable records will be combined in accordance with section 11 of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions. For example, if 500 hundredweight from one unit are commingled with 1,500 hundredweight from another unit and the production to count from the stored production is 1,000 hundredweight, 250 hundredweight of production to count will be allocated to the unit contributing 500 hundredweight and 750 hundredweight to the unit contributing 1500 hundredweight to the stored production. This provision does not eliminate or change any other requirement contained in this policy to provide or maintain separate records of acreage or production by unit.
5. In lieu of section 9(b)(1) of the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions, the extended coverage provided by this endorsement will be applicable but only if:
(a) Insured potatoes are damaged within the insurance period by an insured cause other than freeze that later results in:
(1) Tuber rot as defined in the Northern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions, to the extent that 5.1 percent (by weight) or more of the insured production is affected;
(2) Internal defects to the extent that such defects are in excess of the amount allowed for the U.S. grade standard you elected for purposes of coverage under the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement. Such defects must not be separable from undamaged production using methods used by the packers or processors to which you normally deliver your potato production. This coverage is applicable only to production covered under the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Quality Endorsement; or
(3) The potatoes damaged by an insurance cause of loss fail to meet any of the following standards or a less stringent standard for the same quality factors specified below, contained in the processor contract, if applicable, (this coverage is applicable only to production covered under the Northern Potato Crop Insurance—Processing Quality Endorsement):
(i) A specific gravity lower than 1.074;
(ii) A fry color of No. 3 or darker due to either sugar exceeding 10 percent or sugar ends exceeding 19 percent; or
(iii) An Agtron rating lower than 58.
(b) You notify us within 72 hours of your initial discovery of any damage that has or that may later result in the quality deficiencies specified in section 5(a);
(c) The percentage of production with any of the quality deficiencies specified in section 5(a) is determined based on samples obtained no later than 60 days after the end of the insurance period and the potatoes are evaluated and quality (grade) determinations are made by us, a laboratory approved by us, a potato grader licensed or certified by the applicable State or the United States Department of Agriculture, or us, in accordance with the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes:
(1) Samples of damaged production must be obtained by us or a party approved by us prior to the sale or disposal of any lot of potatoes; and
(2) If production is not sold or disposed of within 60 days after the end of the insurance period, samples must be obtained within 60 days after the end of the insurance period and a quality (grade) determination must be completed within 21 days of sampling.
[62 FR 65337, Dec. 12, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 61286, Oct. 30, 2007; 86 FR 22843, Apr. 30, 2021]
§ 457.147
Central and Southern potato crop insurance provisions.
The Central and Southern Potato Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of November 30, and for the 2026 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of April 30, June 30, and September 30, are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Central and Southern Potato Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Central and Southern Potato Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.
These provisions will be applicable in Alabama; Arizona; all California counties except Humboldt, Modoc, and Siskiyou; Delaware; Florida; Georgia; Maryland; Missouri; New Jersey; all New Mexico counties except San Juan; North Carolina; Oklahoma; Texas; and Virginia; and other states or counties if allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 1. Definitions
Certified seed.
Potatoes that were entered into the potato certified seed program and that meet all requirements for production to be used to produce a seed crop for the next crop year or a potato crop for harvest for commercial uses in the next crop year.
Discard.
Disposal of production by you, or a person acting for you, without receiving any value for it.
Disposed.
Any disposition of the crop including but not limited to sale or discard.
Grade inspection.
An inspection in which samples of production are obtained by us, or a party approved by us, prior to the sale, storage, or disposal of any lot of potatoes, or any portion of a lot and the potatoes are evaluated and quality (grade) determinations are made by us, a laboratory approved by us, or a potato grader licensed or certified by the applicable State or the United States Department of Agriculture, in accordance with the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes. The United States standards used to determine the quality (grade) deficiencies will be: for potatoes produced for chipping, the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes for Chipping; for potatoes produced for processing, the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes for Processing; for potatoes produced for seed, the United States Standards for Grades of Seed Potatoes; and for all other potatoes, the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes. The quantity and number of samples required will be determined in accordance with procedure issued by FCIC.
Harvest.
Lifting potatoes from within the soil to the soil surface.
Hundredweight.
One hundred (100) pounds avoirdupois.
Lot.
A quantity of production that can be separated from other quantities of production by grade characteristics, load, location or other distinctive features.
Planting period.
The period of time between the calendar dates designated in the Special Provisions for the planting of spring-planted, summer-planted, fall-planted, or winter-planted potatoes.
Potato certified seed program.
The state program administered by a public agency responsible for the seed certification process within the state in which the seed is produced.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition of “Practical to replant” contained in section one of the Basic Provisions, practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors including, but not limited to, moisture availability, condition of the field, marketing windows, and time to crop maturity, that replanting to the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to
the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant after the end of the late planting period, or the end of the planting period in which initial planting took place in counties for which the Special Provisions designates separate planting periods, unless replanting is generally occurring in the area.

# 2. Unit Division
A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will be divided into additional basic units by planting period.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one price election for all the potatoes in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type. If the actuarial documents provide for different price elections by type, you may select one price election for each potato type designated in the actuarial documents. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) If the production from any acreage of the insured crop is not harvested, the price used to determine your indemnity will be 90 percent of your price election.
(c) The price election for unharvested acreage will apply to any acreage of potatoes damaged to the extent that similarly situated producers in the area would not normally care for the potatoes even if you choose to continue to care for or harvest them. Potatoes that are lifted to the soil surface and not removed from the field will also receive the price election for unharvested acreage.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is:
(a) June 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a September 30 cancellation date;
(b) September 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a November 30, December 31, or January 31 cancellation date; and
(c) November 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a February 28 or March 15 cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State and county
Cancellation and
termination dates
Pinellas, Hillsborough, Polk, Osceola, and Brevard Counties, Florida, and all Florida counties lying south thereof
September 30.
Arizona; all California counties; and all Texas counties except Bailey, Castro, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Floyd, Gaines, Hale, Hartley, Haskell, Knox, Lamb, Parmer, Swisher, and Yoakum
November 30.
Alabama; Georgia; Missouri; and All Florida Counties except Pinellas, Hillsborough, Polk, Osceola, and Brevard Counties, Florida, and all Florida counties to the south thereof
December 31.
Delaware; Maryland; New Jersey; North Carolina; and Virginia
January 31.
Oklahoma; and Haskell and Knox Counties, Texas
February 28.
Bailey, Castro, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Floyd, Gaines, Hale, Hartley, Lamb, Parmer, Swisher, and Yoakum counties, Texas; and all New Mexico counties except San Juan County
March 15.

# 6. Annual Premium
In lieu of the premium computation method contained in section 7 of the Basic Provisions, the annual premium amount (y) is computed by multiplying (a) the production guarantee by (b) the price election for harvested acreage, by (c) the premium rate, by (d) the insured acreage, by (e) your share at the time of planting, and by (f) any applicable premium adjustment factors contained in the actuarial documents (a × b × c × d × e × f = y).

# 7. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the potatoes in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) Planted with certified seed (unless otherwise permitted by the Special Provisions);
(c) Planted for harvest as certified seed stock, or for human consumption, (unless specified otherwise in the Special Provisions);
(d) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(1) Interplanted with another crop; or
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to section 9 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any acreage that:
(a) Does not meet the rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions for the crop; or
(b) Is damaged before the final planting date or before the end of the applicable planting period in counties for which the Special Provisions designate separate planting periods, to the extent that similarly situated producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, unless it is replanted or we agree that it is not practical to replant.

# 9. Insurance Period
In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the date immediately following planting as follows (exceptions, if any, for specific counties, varieties or types are contained in the Special Provisions):
(a) July 15 in Missouri; and all Texas counties except Bailey, Castro, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Floyd, Gaines, Hale, Haskell, Hartley, Knox, Lamb, Parmer, Swisher, and Yoakum.
(b) July 25 in Arizona.
(c) August 15 in North Carolina; Oklahoma; and Haskell and Knox Counties, Texas.
(d) August 31 in Virginia.
(e) In Alabama; California; Florida; and Georgia; the dates established by the Special Provisions for each planting period; and
(f) October 15 in Bailey, Castro, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Floyd, Gaines, Hale, Hartley, Lamb, Parmer, Swisher, and Yoakum Counties, Texas; Delaware; Maryland; New Jersey; and all counties in New Mexico except San Juan.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss which occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but only if sufficient and proper pest control measures are used;
(4) Plant disease, but only if sufficient and proper disease control measures are used;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period (see section 10(a) (1) through (7)).
(b) In addition to the causes of loss not insured against as contained in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any loss of production due to:
(1) Damage that occurs or becomes evident after the end of the insurance period, including, but not limited to, damage that occurs or becomes evident in storage; or
(2) Causes, such as freeze after certain dates, as limited by the Special Provisions.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must leave representative samples at least 10 feet wide and extending the entire length of each field in the unit if you are going to destroy any acreage of the insured crop that will not be harvested.
(b) We must be given the opportunity to perform a grade inspection on the production from any unit for which you have given notice of damage.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable production records were not provided; and
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee (if there is unharvested acreage in the unit, the harvested and unharvested acreage will be determined separately);
(2) Multiplying each result in section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election (the price election may be limited as specified in section 3);
(3) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each type, if applicable, (see section 12(d)) by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the results of section 12(b)(5) from the result in section 12(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(6) by your share.
For example: You have a 100 percent share in 100 harvested acres of potatoes in the unit, with a guarantee of 150 hundredweight per acre and a price election of $4.00 per hundredweight. You are only able to harvest 10,000 hundredweight. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 150 hundredweight = 15,000 hundredweight guarantee;
(2) 15,000 hundredweight × $4.00 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee;
(4) 10,000 hundredweight × $4.00 price election = $40,000.00 value of production to count;
(6) $60,000.00−$40,000.00 = $20,000.00 loss; and
(7) $20,000.00 × 100 percent = $20,000.00 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 100 unharvested acres of potatoes in the same
unit, with a guarantee of 150 hundredweight per acre and a price election of $3.60 per hundredweight. (The price election for unharvested acreage is 90.0 percent of your elected price election ($4.00 × 0.90 = $3.60.)) This unharvested acreage was appraised at 35 hundredweight per acre for a total of 3,500 hundredweight as production to count. Your total indemnity for the harvested and unharvested acreage would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 150 hundredweight = 15,000 hundredweight guarantee for the harvested acreage, and 100 acres × 150 hundredweight = 15,000 hundredweight guarantee for the unharvested acreage;
(2) 15,000 hundredweight guarantee × $4.00 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee for the harvested acreage, and 15,000 hundredweight guarantee × $3.60 price election = $54,000.00 value of guarantee for the unharvested acreage;
(3) $60,000.00 + $54,000.00 = $114,000.00 total value of guarantee;
(4) 10,000 hundredweight × $4.00 price election = $40,000.00 value of production to count for the harvested acreage, and 3,500 hundredweight × $3.60 = $12,600.00 value of production to count for the unharvested acreage;
(5) $40,000.00 + $12,600.00 = $52,600.00 total value of production to count;
(6) $114,000.00−$52,600.00 = $61,400.00 loss; and
(7) $61,400.00 loss × 100 percent = $61,400.00 indemnity payment.
(c) The extent of any quality loss must be determined based on samples obtained no later than the time potatoes are placed in storage, if the production is stored prior to sale, or the date they are delivered to a buyer, wholesaler, packer, broker, or other handler if production is not stored.
(d) The total production to count (in hundredweight) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes;
(D) From which any production is disposed of without a grade inspection; or
(E) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Production lost due to harvest prior to full maturity. Production to count from such acreage will be determined by increasing the amount of harvested production by 2 percent per day for each day the potatoes were harvested prior to the date the potatoes would have reached full maturity. The date the potatoes would have reached full maturity will be considered to be 45 days prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions. This adjustment will not be made if the potatoes are damaged by an insurable cause of loss, and leaving the crop in the field would either reduce production or decrease quality.
(iv) Unharvested production, including unharvested production on insured acreage you intend to put to another use or abandon, or acreage damaged by insurable causes and for which you cease to provide further care, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or cease providing care for the crop. This unharvested production may be adjusted in accordance with section 12(e), and the value of all unharvested production will be calculated using the reduced price election determined in section 3(b). If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The price used to determine the amount of any indemnity will be limited as specified in section 3 even if the representative samples are harvested. The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage determined in accordance with section 12(e).
(e) Only marketable lots of mature potatoes will be production to count for loss adjustment purposes, except for production specified in 12(e)(1):
(1) Production not meeting the standards for grading U.S. No. 2 due to external defects will be determined on an individual basis for all harvested and unharvested potatoes if we determine it is or would be practical to separate the damaged production;
(2) All determinations must be based upon a grade inspection; and
(3) Prior to any grade inspection, you must notify us of the intended use of the potatoes so the appropriate United States Standard
will be applied (We may request previous sales records to verify your claimed intended use or base the intended use on the type of potato grown if such potatoes are not usually grown for the intended use you reported).
(4) Marketable lots of potatoes will include any lot of potatoes that is:
(i) Stored;
(ii) Sold as seed;
(iii) Sold for human consumption; or
(iv) Harvested and not sold or that is appraised if such lots meet the standards for grading U.S. No. 2 grade or better on a sample basis.
(5) Marketable lots will also include any potatoes that we determine:
(i) Could have been sold for seed or human consumption in the general marketing area;
(ii) Were not sold as a result of uninsured causes including, but not limited to, failure to meet chipper or processor standards for fry color or specific gravity; or
(iii) Were disposed of without our prior written consent and such disposition prevented our determination of marketability.
(6) Unless included in section 12(e)(4) or (5), a potato lot will not be considered marketable if, due to insurable causes of damage, it:
(i) Is partially damaged, and is salvageable only for starch, alcohol, or livestock feed;
(ii) Does not meet the standards for grading U.S. No. 2 grade or better due to internal defects; or
(iii) Does not meet the standards for grading U.S. No. 2 grade or better due to external defects, and it is not practical to separate the damaged production.

# 13. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 65333, Dec. 12, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 61287, Oct. 30, 2007; 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016; 89 FR 53843, June 27, 2024; 89 FR 93469, Nov. 27, 2024]
§ 457.148
Fresh market pepper crop insurance provisions.
The fresh market pepper crop insurance provisions for the 2024 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies

# Fresh Market Pepper Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Acre.
43,560 square feet of land when row widths do not exceed six feet, or if row widths exceed six feet, the land area on which at least 7,260 linear feet of rows are planted.
Bell pepper.
An annual pepper (of the capsicum annum species, grossum group), widely cultivated for its large, crisp, edible fruit.
Box.
One and one-ninth (1
1/9
) bushels of the insured crop.
Crop year.
In lieu of the definition of “crop year” contained in section 1 (Definitions) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), crop year is a period of time that begins on the first day of the earliest planting period for fall planted peppers and continues through the last day of the insurance period for spring planted peppers. The crop year is designated by the calendar year in which spring planted peppers are harvested.
Excess rain.
An amount of precipitation sufficient to directly damage the crop.
Freeze.
The formation of ice in the cells of the plant or its fruit, caused by low air temperatures.
Harvest.
The picking of peppers on the unit.
Mature bell pepper.
A pepper that has reached the stage of development that will withstand normal handling and shipping.
Plant stand.
The number of live plants per acre prior to the occurrence of an insurable cause of loss.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in ;section 1 of the Basic Provisions, for each planting period, pepper seed or transplants must initially be planted in rows, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Planting period.
The period of time designated in the actuarial documents in which the peppers must be planted to be considered fall, winter or spring-planted peppers.
Potential production.
The number of boxes of mature bell peppers that the pepper plants will or would have produced per acre by the end of the insurance period, assuming normal growing conditions and practices.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition of “Practical to replant” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors, including but not limited to moisture availability, condition of
the field, marketing windows, and time to crop maturity, that replanting to the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period (inability to obtain plants or seed will not be considered when determining if it is practical to replant).
Row width.
The widest distance from the center of one row of plants to the center of an adjacent row of plants.
Tropical depression.
A system identified by the U.S. Weather Service as a tropical depression, and for the period of time so designated, including tropical storms, gales, and hurricanes.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will also be divided into additional basic units by planting period.
(b) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable.

# 3. Amounts of Insurance and Production Stages
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 (Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), you may select only one coverage level (and the corresponding amount of insurance designated in the actuarial documents for the applicable planting period and practice) for all the peppers in the county insured under this policy.
(b) The amount of insurance you choose for each planting period and practice must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each planting period and practice. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum amount of insurance for a specific planting period and practice, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum amount of insurance for all other planting periods and practices.
(c) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 (Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8) do not apply to fresh market peppers.
(d) The amounts of insurance per acre are progressive by stages as follows:
Stage
Percent of the amount of insurance per acre that you selected
Length of time if direct-seeded
Length of time if transplanted
1
65
From planting through the 74th day after planting
From planting through the 44th day after planting.
2
85
From the 75th day after planting until the beginning of stage 3
From the 45th day after planting until the beginning of stage 3.
3
100
Begins the earlier of 110 days after planting, or the beginning of harvest
Begins the earlier of 80 days after planting, or the beginning of harvest.
(e) Any acreage of peppers damaged in the first or second stage to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would not normally further care for it, will be deemed to have been destroyed. The indemnity payable for such acreage will be based on the stage the plants had achieved when the damage occurred.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 (Contract Changes) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the contract change date is April 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 (Life of Policy, Cancellation, and Termination) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are July 31.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements of section 6 (Report of Acreage) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), you must report on or before the acreage reporting date contained in the Special Provisions for each planting period:
(a) All the acreage of peppers in the county insured under this policy in which you have a share;
(b) The dates the acreage was planted within each planting period; and
(c) The row width.

# 7. Annual Premium
In lieu of the premium amount determinations contained in section 7 (Annual Premium and Administrative Fees) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the annual premium amount for each cultural practice (for example, fall direct-seeded irrigated) is determined by multiplying the third stage
amount of insurance per acre by the premium rate for the cultural practice as established in the actuarial documents, by the insured acreage, by your share at the time coverage begins, and by any applicable premium adjustment factors contained in the actuarial documents.

# 8. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 (Insured Crop) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the crop insured will be all the bell peppers in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are:
(1) Planted to be harvested and sold as mature fresh market bell peppers;
(2) Planted within the planting periods designated in the actuarial documents;
(3) Grown under an irrigated practice;
(4) Grown on acreage covered by plastic mulch except where the Special Provisions allow otherwise;
(5) Grown by a person who in at least one of the three previous crop years:
(i) Grew bell peppers for commercial sale; or
(ii) Participated in managing a bell pepper farming operation;
(c) That are not:
(1) Interplanted with another crop;
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume;
(3) Pimento peppers; or
(4) Grown for direct marketing.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
(a) In lieu of the provisions of section 9 (Insurable Acreage) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), that prohibit insurance attaching if a crop has not been planted in at least one of the three previous crop years, we will insure newly cleared land or former pasture land planted to fresh market peppers.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 9 (Insurable Acreage) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) You must replant any acreage of peppers damaged during the planting period in which initial planting took place whenever less than 50 percent of the plant stand remains: and
(i) It is practical to replant;
(ii) If, at the time the crop was damaged, the final day of the planting period has not passed; and
(iii) The damage occurs within 30 days of transplanting or 60 days of direct-seeding.
(2) Whenever peppers initially are planted during the fall or winter planting periods and the conditions specified in sections 9(b)(1) (ii) and (iii) are not satisfied, you may elect:
(i) To replant such acreage and collect any replant payment due as specified in section 12. The initial planting period coverage will continue for such replanted acreage.
(ii) Not to replant such acreage and receive an indemnity based on the stage of growth the plants had attained at the time of damage. However, such an election will result in the acreage being uninsurable in the subsequent planting period.
(3) We will not insure any acreage on which peppers (except for replanted peppers in accordance with sections 9(b)(1) and (2)), tomatoes, eggplants, or tobacco have been grown and the soil was not fumigated or otherwise properly treated before planting peppers.

# 10. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions of section 11 (Insurance Period) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), coverage begins on each unit or part of a unit the later of the date we accept your application, or when the peppers are planted in each planting period. Coverage ends at the earliest of:
(a) Total destruction of the peppers on the unit;
(b) Abandonment of the peppers on the unit;
(c) The date harvest should have started on the unit on any acreage which will not be harvested;
(d) Final adjustment of a loss on the unit;
(e) Final harvest; or
(f) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period as follows:
(1) 165 days after the date of direct-seeding or replanting with seed; and
(2) 150 days after the date of transplanting or replanting with transplants.

# 11. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Excess rain;
(2) Fire;
(3) Freeze;
(4) Hail;
(5) Tornado;
(6) Tropical depression; or
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against any loss of production due to:
(1) Disease or insect infestation, unless no effective control measure exists for such disease or insect infestation; or
(2) Failure to market the peppers, unless such failure is due to actual physical damage caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period.

# 12. Replanting Payments
(a) In accordance with section 13 (Replanting Payment) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), a replanting payment is allowed if, due to an insured cause of loss, more than 50 percent of the plant stand will not produce peppers and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of your actual cost of replanting or the result obtained by multiplying the per acre replanting payment amount contained in the Special Provisions by your insured share.
(c) In lieu of the provisions contained in section 13 (Replanting Payment) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), that limit a replanting payment to one each crop year, only one replanting payment will be made for acreage planted during each planting period within the crop year.

# 13. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements contained in section 14 (Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss) of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit you also must give us notice not later than 72 hours after the earliest of:
(a) The time you discontinue harvest of any acreage on the unit;
(b) The date harvest normally would start if any acreage on the unit will not be harvested; or
(c) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period.

# 14. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage in each stage by the amount of insurance per acre for the final stage;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 14(b)(1) by the percentage for the applicable stage (see section 3(d));
(3) Total the results of section 14(b)(2);
(4) Subtracting either of the following values from the result of section 14(b)(3):
(i) For other than catastrophic risk protection coverage, the total value of production to be counted (see section 14(c)); or
(ii) For catastrophic risk protection coverage, the result of multiplying the total value of production to be counted (see section 14(c)) by:
(A) Sixty percent for the 1998 crop year; or
(B) Fifty-five percent for 1999 and subsequent crop years; and
(5) Multiplying the result of section 14(b)(4) by your share.
(c) The total value of production to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) Not less than the amount of insurance per acre for the stage for any acreage:
(i) That is abandoned;
(ii) Put to another use without our consent;
(iii) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(iv) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(2) The value of the following appraised production will not be less than the dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of boxes of appraised peppers by the minimum value per box shown in the actuarial documents for the planting period:
(i) Potential production on any acreage that has not been harvested the third time;
(ii) Unharvested mature bell peppers (unharvested production that is damaged or defective due to insurable causes and is not marketable will not be counted as production to count);
(iii) Production lost due to uninsured causes; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) We may require you to continue to care for the crop so that a subsequent appraisal may be made or the crop harvested to determine actual production (If we require you to continue to care for the crop and you do not do so, the original appraisal will be used); or
(B) You may elect to continue to care for the crop, in which case the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if the crop is not harvested.
(3) The total value of all harvested production from the insurable acreage will be the dollar amount obtained by subtracting the allowable cost contained in the actuarial documents from the price received for each box of peppers (this result may not be less than the minimum value shown in the actuarial documents for any box of peppers), and multiplying this result by the number of boxes of peppers harvested. Harvested production that is damaged or defective due to insurable causes and is not marketable, will not be counted as production to count.

# 15. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 16. Minimum Value Option
(a) The provisions of this option are continuous and will be attached to and made a part of your insurance policy, if:
(1) You elect
either
Option I
or
Option II of the Minimum Value Option on your application, or on a form approved by us, on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year in which you wish to insure fresh market peppers under this option, and pay the additional premium indicated in the actuarial documents for this optional coverage; and
(2) You have not elected coverage under the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement.
(b) In lieu of the provisions contained in section 14(c)(3), the total value of harvested production will be determined as follows:
(1) If you selected Option I of the Minimum Value Option, the total value of harvested production will be as follows:
(i) For sold production, the dollar amount obtained by subtracting the allowable cost contained in the actuarial documents from the price received for each box of peppers (this result may not be less than the minimum value option price contained in the actuarial documents for any box of peppers), and multiplying this result by the number of boxes of peppers sold; and
(ii) For marketable production that is not sold, the dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of boxes of such peppers on the unit by the minimum value shown in the actuarial documents for the planting period (harvested production that is damaged or defective due to insurable causes and is not marketable will not be counted as production).
(2) If you selected Option II of the Minimum Value Option, the total value of harvested production will be as provided in section 16(b)(1), except that the dollar amount specified in section 16(b)(1)(i) may not be less than zero.
(c) This option may be canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice on or before the cancellation date preceding the crop year for which the cancellation of this option is to be effective.
[62 FR 14789, Mar. 28, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65174, Dec. 10, 1997; 87 FR 38896, June 30, 2022]
§ 457.149
Table grape crop insurance provisions.
The Table Grape Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
For:

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# For Reinsured Policies
(Insurance provider's name or other appropriate heading)
For both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Table Grape Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Graft.
To unite a shoot or bud (scion) with a rootstock or an existing vine in accordance with recommended practices to form a living union.
Harvest.
Removing the mature grapes from the vines either by hand or machine.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Lug.
(1) Twenty (20) pounds of table grapes in the Coachella Valley, California district, and all other States.
(2) Twenty-one (21) pounds in all other California districts.
(3) Or as otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
Set out.
Physically planting the grape plants in the vineyard.
Table grapes.
Grapes that are grown for commercial sale for human consumption as fresh fruit on acreage where the cultural practices to produce fresh marketable grapes are carried out.
Type.
A category of grapes (one or more varieties) identified as a type in the Special Provisions.
USDA
g
rade standard.
(1) United States standard used to determine the minimum quality grade will be:
(i) The United States Standards for Grades of Table Grapes (European or Vinifera Type);
(ii) The United States Standards for Grades of American (Eastern Type Bunch Grapes); and
(iii) The United States Standards for Grades of Muscadine (
Vitis rotundifolia
) Grapes.
(2) The quantity and number of samples required will be determined in accordance with procedure issued by FCIC or as provided on the Special Provisions of Insurance.
Variety.
A kind of grape that is distinguished from any other by unique characteristics such as, but not limited to, size, color, skin thickness, acidity, flavors and aromas. In Arizona and California each variety is identified as a separate type in the Special Provisions except for type 095 (other varieties). Type 095 is used to designate varieties not listed as a separate type.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) In Arizona and California only:
(1) A basic unit as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions will be divided into additional basic units by each table grape variety that you insure; and
(2) Provisions in the Basic Provisions that provide for optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable. Unless otherwise allowed by written agreement, optional units may only be established if each optional unit is located on non-contiguous land or grown and insured under an organic farming practice.
(b) In all states except Arizona and California, in addition to, or instead of, establishing optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm number and by irrigated and non-irrigated acreage and for acreage grown and insured under an organic farming practice as provided in the unit division provisions contained in the Basic Provisions, a separate optional unit may be established if each optional unit:
(1) Is located on non-contiguous land; or
(2) Consists of a separate type when separate types are specified in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) In Arizona and California, you may select only one coverage level and price election for each table grape variety you elect to insure in the county.
(b) In all states except Arizona and California, you may select only one coverage level and price election for each table grape type in the county as specified in the Special Provisions. The coverage level you choose for each table grape type is not required to have the same percentage relationship. The price election you choose for each type is not required to have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 75 percent coverage level and 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you may choose 65 percent coverage level and 75 percent of the maximum price election for another type. If you elect the Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) level of insurance for any grape type, the CAT level of coverage will be applicable to all insured grape acreage in the county.
(c) In all states except Arizona and California, if you acquire a share in any grape acreage after you submit your application, such acreage is insurable under the terms of the policy and you did not include the grape type on your application, we will assign the following:
(1) A coverage level equal to the lowest coverage level you selected for any other grape type: and
(2) A price election percentage equal to the type with the lowest coverage level you selected, if you elected additional coverage; or 55 percent of the maximum price election, if you elected CAT.
(d) You must report by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type or variety if applicable:
(1) Any damage, removal of bearing vines, change in practices or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing vines on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the vines and the planting pattern; and
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage is changed:
(i) The age of the interplanted crop, and the table grape type or variety, if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(e) We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee, based on our estimate of the effect on yield potential of any of the items listed in section 3(d)(1) through (4). If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your production guarantee at any time we become aware of the circumstance.
(f) Your request to increase the coverage level or price election percentage will not be accepted if a cause of loss that could or would reduce the yield of the insured crop is evident when your request is made.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is October 31 preceding the cancellation date for Arizona and California and August 31 preceding the cancellation date for all other states.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are January 31 in Arizona and California, and November 20 for all other states.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must report your acreage:
(a) In Arizona and California, by each table grape variety you insure; or
(b) In all other states, by each table grape type.

# 7. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be any insurable variety of table grapes that you elect to insure in Arizona and California, or in all other states all insurable types, in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown for harvest as table grapes;
(c) That are adapted to the area;
(d) That are grown in a vineyard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us;
(e) That, after being set out or grafted, have reached the number of leaf years designated by the Special Provisions; and
(f) That have produced an average of at least 150 lugs of table grapes per acre in at least one of the three crop years immediately preceding the insured crop year, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, table grapes interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions
(1) For the year of application, coverage begins on February 1 in Arizona and California, and November 21 in all other states. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if your application is received by us after January 12 but prior to February 1 in Arizona or California, or after November 1 but prior to November 21 in all other states, insurance will attach on the 20th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 20-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the vineyard.
(2) For each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(3) If in accordance with the terms of the policy, your table grape policy is cancelled or terminated for any crop year after insurance attached for that crop year, but on or before the cancellation and termination dates, whichever is later, insurance will not be considered to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.
(4) The calendar date for the end of insurance period for each crop year is the date specified in the Special Provisions.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins, but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable; insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period. Acreage acquired after the acreage reporting date will not be insured.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of table grapes on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium will be due or indemnity paid for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the vineyard;
(3) Insects, except as excluded in 10(b)(1), but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Phylloxera, regardless of cause; or
(2) Inability to market the table grapes for any reason other than the actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(a) You must notify us within 3 days after the date harvest should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(b) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count of not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(c) If the crop has been damaged during the growing season and you previously gave notice in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must also provide notice at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest if you intend to claim an indemnity as a result of the damage previously reported. You must not destroy the damaged crop until the earlier of 15 days from the date you gave notice of loss, or our written consent to do so. If you fail to meet the requirements of this section all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election you selected for each type or variety;
(3) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to count of each type or variety, if applicable, (see section 12(c)) by the respective price election you selected;
(5) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result of section 12(b)(5) from the result in section 12(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(6) by your share.
(c) The total production to count (in lugs) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements in section 11(b);
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production that meets, or would meet if properly handled, the state quality standards, if specified in the Special Provisions, or the appropriate USDA grade standard (if no state standard is specified); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from insurable acreage regardless of condition or disposition. The quantity of production to count for table grape production damaged by insurable causes within the insurance period that is marketed for any use other than table grapes will be determined by multiplying the greater of (1) the value of the table grapes per ton or (2) $50, by the number of tons and dividing that result by the highest price election available for the insured unit. This result will be the number of lugs to count.

# 13. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 47747, Sept. 11, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65175, Dec. 10, 1997; 65 FR 47839, Aug. 4, 2000; 74 FR 32057, July 7, 2009; 74 FR 35113, July 20, 2009; 76 FR 4804, Jan. 27, 2011; 87 FR 38896, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52854, Aug. 30, 2022]
§ 457.150
Dry bean crop insurance provisions.
The Dry Bean Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Dry Bean Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Dry Bean Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Actual value.
The dollar value received, or that could be received, for contract seed beans under a seed bean processor contract if the contract seed bean production is properly handled in accordance with the requirements of such contract.
Base price.
The price per pound (excluding any discounts or incentives that may apply) that is stated in the seed bean processor contract and that will be paid to the producer for at least 50 percent of the total production under contract with the seed company.
Beans.
Dry beans and contract seed beans.
Combining.
A harvesting process that uses a machine to separate the beans from the pods and other vegetative matter and place the beans into a temporary storage receptacle.
Contract seed beans.
Dry beans grown under the terms of a seed bean processor contract for the purpose of producing seed to be used for producing dry beans or vegetable beans in a future crop year.
Dry beans.
The crop defined by The United States Standards for Beans excluding contract seed beans.
Harvest.
Combining the beans. Beans which are swathed or knifed prior to combining are not considered harvested.
Local market price.
The cash price per hundredweight for the U.S. No. 2 grade of dry beans of the insured type offered by buyers in the area in which you normally market the dry beans. Moisture content and factors not associated with grading under the United States Standards for Beans will not be considered in establishing this price.
Net price.
The dollar value of dry bean production received, or that could have been received, after reductions in value due to insurable causes of loss.
Pick.
The percentage, on a weight basis, of defects including splits, damaged (including discolored) beans, contrasting types, and foreign material that remains in the dry beans after dockage has been removed by the proper use of screens or sieves.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, beans must initially be planted in rows far enough apart to permit mechanical cultivation, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition of “Practical to replant” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors, including but not limited to moisture availability, condition of the field, time to crop maturity, and marketing window, that replanting the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant after the end of the late planting period unless replanting is generally occurring in the area. For contract seed beans, it will not be considered practical to replant unless production from the replanted acreage can be delivered under the terms of the seed bean processor contract or the seed company agrees to accept such production.
Seed bean processor contract.
A written agreement between the contract seed bean producer and the seed company, containing at a minimum:
(a) The contract seed bean producer's promise to plant and grow one or more specific varieties of contract seed beans, and deliver the production from those varieties to the seed company;
(b) The seed company's promise to purchase all the production stated in the contract; and
(c) A base price, or a method to determine such price based on published independent information, that will be paid to the contract seed bean producer for the production stated in the contract.
Seed company.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in the processing of seed beans, that possesses all licenses and permits for marketing seed beans required by the State in which it operates, and that possesses or has contracted for facilities, with enough drying, screening and bagging or packaging equipment to accept and process the seed beans within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Swathing or knifing.
Severance of the bean plant from the ground, including the pods and beans, and placing them into windrows.
Type.
A category of beans identified as a type in the Special Provisions or insured by written agreement.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) In addition to the definition of basic unit in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, all acreage of contract seed beans qualifies as a separate basic unit. For production-based seed bean processor contracts, the basic unit will consist of all the acreage needed to produce the amount of production under contract, based on the actual production history of the acreage. For acreage-based seed bean processor contracts, the basic unit will consist of all acreage specified in the contract.
(b) In addition to enterprise units provided in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions, you may elect separate enterprise units by type, as provided in this section, if allowed by the actuarial documents. If you elect enterprise units by type, you may not elect enterprise or optional units by any other practice or type.
(1) You may elect separate enterprise units by type unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions. For example, if you have Great Northern and Pinto types, you may elect one enterprise unit for the Great Northern type or one enterprise unit for the Pinto type, or separate enterprise units for both types. Any acreage which is not reported and insured as an enterprise unit will be insured as a basic unit or optional unit if requirements are met. For example, if you only have Great Northern and Pinto types, you may have an enterprise unit for the Great Northern type acreage and basic or optional units for the Pinto type acreage.
(2) You must separately meet the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions for each enterprise unit by type.
(3) If you elected separate enterprise units for multiple types and we discover enterprise unit qualifications are not separately met for all types in which you elected enterprise units and such discovery is made:
(i) On or before the acreage reporting date, you may elect to insure:
(A) All types in which you elected an enterprise unit for meeting the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions as separate enterprise units, and basic or optional units for any acreage that is not reported and insured as an enterprise unit, whichever you report on your acreage report and for which you qualify;
(B) One enterprise unit for all acreage of the crop in the county provided you meet the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions; or
(C) Basic or optional units for all acreage of the crop in the county, whichever you report on your acreage report and for which you qualify; or
(ii) At any time after the acreage reporting date, your unit structure will be one enterprise unit for all acreage of the crop in the county provided you meet the requirements in section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions. Otherwise, we will assign the basic unit structure for all acreage of the crop in the county.
(4) If you elected an enterprise unit for only one type and we discover you do not qualify for an enterprise unit for that type and such discovery is made:
(i) On or before the acreage reporting date, your unit division for all acreage of the crop in the county will be based on basic or optional units, whichever you report on your acreage report and for which you qualify; or
(ii) At any time after the acreage reporting date, we will assign the basic unit structure for all acreage of the crop in the county.
(c) In addition to, or instead of, establishing optional units as provided in section 34(c) of the Basic Provisions, a separate optional unit may be established for each bean type (designated in actuarial documents and including any type insured by written agreement).
(d) Contract seed beans may qualify for a separate enterprise or optional unit only if the seed bean processor contract specifies the number of acres under contract and contract seed beans are listed as a separate type in the actuarial documents. Contract seed beans produced under a seed bean processor contract that specifies only an amount of production are not eligible for a separate enterprise or optional unit.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3(b) of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one price election for all the dry beans in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each dry bean type designated in the actuarial documents. The price elections you choose for each type are not required to have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you may also choose 75 percent of the maximum price election for another type.
(b) For contract seed beans only, the dollar amount of insurance is obtained by multiplying the production guarantee per acre for each variety in the unit by the insured acreage of that variety, times the applicable base price, and times the price election percentage you selected. The total of these results will be the amount of insurance for contract seed beans in the unit.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State and county
Cancellation and
termination dates
California
February 28.
All other States
March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
For contract seed beans only, in addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must submit a copy of the seed bean processor contract on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the beans in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are planted for harvest as:
(i) Dry beans; or
(ii) If applicable, contract seed beans, if the seed bean processor contract is executed on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(3) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Interplanted with another crop; or
(ii) Planted into an established grass or legume.
(b) For contract seed beans only:
(1) An instrument in the form of a “lease” under which you retain control of the acreage on which the insured crop is grown and that provides for delivery of the crop under substantially the same terms as a seed bean processor contract may be treated as a contract under which you have an insurable interest in the crop; and
(2) We will not insure any acreage of contract seed beans produced by a seed company.
(c) In addition to the types of dry beans designated in the Special Provisions, we will insure other types by written agreement if:
(1) The type you intend to plant has been demonstrated to be adapted to the area. Evidence of adaptability must include:
(i) Results of test plots for two years and recommendations by a university or seed company; or
(ii) Two years of production reports that indicate your experience producing the type in your production area;
(2) You submit your production reports and prices received, or the test plot results, and evidence of market potential, including the price buyers are willing to pay for the type; and
(3) Both parties (you and us) enter into a written agreement allowing insurance on the type in accordance with section 18 of the Basic Provisions.
(d) Any acreage of beans that is destroyed and replanted to a different insurable type of beans will be considered insured acreage in accordance with section 11.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions; or
(b) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that replanting is not practical. We will not require you to replant if it is not practical to replant to the same type of beans as originally planted.

# 9. Insurance Period
In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the date immediately following planting as follows:
(a) October 15 in Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Texas;
(b) November 15 in California; and
(c) October 31 in all other States.

# 10. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; or
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.

# 11. Replanting Payments
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if the bean crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 10 percent of the production guarantee for the type to be replanted or 120 pounds multiplied by your price election for the type to be replanted and by your insured share.
(c) When beans are replanted using a practice that is uninsurable as an original planting, the liability for the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.
(d) The guarantee and premium for acreage replanted to a different insurable type will be based on the replanted type and will be calculated in accordance with sections 3 and 7 of the Basic Provisions and section 3 of these Crop Provisions.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, representative samples of the unharvested crop must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage to your bean crop covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage of each dry bean type by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 13(b)(1) by the respective price election for each insured type;
(3) Totaling the results in section 13(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the insured acreage of each contract seed bean type by its respective production guarantee;
(5) Multiplying each result in section 13(b)(4) by the applicable base price;
(6) Multiplying each result in section 13(b)(5) by your selected price election percentage;
(7) Totaling the results in section 13(b)(6);
(8) Totaling the results in section 13(b)(3) and section 13(b)(6);
(9) Multiplying the total production to be counted of each dry bean type if applicable, (see section 13(d)) by the respective price election;
(10) Totaling the value of all contract seed bean production (see section 13(c));
(11) Totaling the results in section 13(b)(9) and section 13(b)(10);
(12) Subtracting the total in section 13(b)(11) from the total in section 13(b)(8); and
(13) Multiplying the result by your share.
(c) The value of contract seed bean production to count for each type in the unit will be determined as follows:
(1) For production meeting the minimum quality requirements contained in the seed bean processor contract and for production that does not meet such requirements due to uninsured causes:
(i) Multiplying the actual value or base price per pound, whichever is greater, by the price election percentage you selected; and
(ii) Multiplying the result by the number of pounds of such production.
(2) For production not meeting the minimum quality requirements contained in the seed bean processor contract due to insurable causes:
(i) Multiplying the actual value by the price election percentage you selected; and
(ii) Multiplying the result by the number of pounds of such production.
(d) The total bean production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production of dry beans may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 13(e)); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to
leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(e) Mature dry bean production to count may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. If moisture adjustment is applicable, it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality. Adjustment for excess moisture and quality deficiencies will not be applicable to contract seed beans.
(1) Production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of 18 percent. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if:
(i) A pick is designated in the Special Provisions and the pick of the damaged production exceeds this designation; or
(ii) A pick is not designated in the Special Provisions and deficiencies in quality, in accordance with the United States Standards for Beans, result in dry beans not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 2 (grades U.S. No. 3 or worse) because the beans are damaged or badly damaged; or
(iii) Substances or conditions are present that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health.
(3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss only if:
(i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these crop provisions and which occurs within the insurance period;
(ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions result in a net price for the damaged production that is less than the local market price;
(iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions are made using samples of the production obtained by us or by a disinterested third party approved by us;
(iv) With regard to deficiencies in quality (except test weight, which may be determined by our loss adjuster), the samples are analyzed by:
(A) A grader licensed under the United States Agricultural Marketing Act or the United States Warehouse Act;
(B) A grader licensed under State law and employed by a warehouse operator who has a storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation; or
(C) A grader not licensed under State law, but who is employed by a warehouse operator who has a commodity storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation and is in compliance with State law regarding warehouses; and
(v) With regard to substances or conditions injurious to human or animal health, the samples are analyzed by a laboratory approved by us.
(4) Dry bean production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in sections 13(e)(2) and (3), will be reduced:
(i) If a conversion factor is designated by the Special Provisions, by multiplying the number of pounds of eligible production by the conversion factor designated in the Special Provisions for the applicable grade or pick; or
(ii) If a conversion factor is not designated by the Special Provisions as follows:
(A) The market price of the qualifying damaged production and the local market price will be determined on the earlier of the date such quality adjusted production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit. If a local market price is not available for the insured crop year, the current years' maximum price election available for the applicable type will be used. The price for the qualifying damaged production will be the market price for the local area to the extent feasible. We may obtain prices from any buyer of our choice. If we obtain prices from one or more buyers located outside your local market area, we will reduce such prices by the additional costs required to deliver the dry beans to those buyers. Discounts used to establish the net price of the damaged production will be limited to those that are usual, customary, and reasonable. The price of the damaged production will not be reduced for:
(
1
) Moisture content;
(
2
) Damage due to uninsured causes; or
(
3
) Drying, handling, processing, including trading tare for grade to obtain a higher grade and price, or any other costs associated with normal harvesting, handling, and marketing of the dry beans; except, if the price of the damaged production can be increased by conditioning, we may reduce the price of the production after it has been conditioned by the cost of conditioning but not lower than the value of the production before conditioning;
(B) The value per pound of the damaged or conditioned production will be divided by the
local market price to determine the quality adjustment factor; and
(C) The number of pounds remaining after any reduction due to excessive moisture (the moisture-adjusted gross pounds (if appropriate)) of the damaged or conditioned production will then be multiplied by the quality adjustment factor to determine the net production to count.
(f) Any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on a weight basis.

# 14. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 6105, Feb. 11, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 63633, Dec. 2, 1997; 62 FR 65175, Dec. 10, 1997; 67 FR 55690, Aug. 30, 2002; 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016; 86 FR 33084, June 24, 2021; 86 FR 45855, Aug. 17, 2021; 86 FR 67839, Nov. 30, 2021; 89 FR 53843, June 27, 2024; 89 FR 93469, Nov. 27, 2024]
§ 457.151
Forage seeding crop insurance provisions.
The Forage Seeding Crop Insurance Provisions for 2022 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies:

# Forage Seeding Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Adequate stand.
The number shown in the Special Provisions, representing:
(a) For forage containing 60 percent or more alfalfa, the minimum required number of live alfalfa stems per square foot that are two inches or greater in height; or
(b) For forage containing less than 60 percent alfalfa, the normal planting density.
Amount of insurance.
The dollar amount of insurance per acre obtained by multiplying the reference maximum dollar amount shown in the actuarial documents by the coverage level percentage you elect.
Companion crop.
A crop seeded into the same acreage as another crop, that is intended to be harvested separately, and that is planted to improve growing conditions for the crop with which it is grown.
Crop year.
The period within which the planting is or normally would become established and shall be designated by the calendar year in which the planting is made for spring planted acreage and the next succeeding calendar year for fall planted acreage.
Fall planted.
A forage crop seeded after June 30, except when specified in the Special Provisions.
Forage.
Planted perennial alfalfa, perennial red clover, perennial grasses, or a mixture thereof, or other species, as shown in the actuarial documents.
Good farming practices.
In lieu of the definition in the Basic Provisions, the cultural practices generally in use in the county for the crop to make normal progress toward maturity and produce an adequate stand, and which are those generally recognized by agricultural experts or organic agricultural experts as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions for the area.
Harvest.
Severance of the forage plant from its roots. Acreage that is grazed will not be considered harvested.
Normal planting density.
The minimum number of live plants per square foot as shown in the Special Provisions.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition in the Basic Provisions, land on which seed is initially spread onto the soil surface by any method and subsequently is mechanically incorporated into the soil in a timely manner and at the proper depth will be considered planted, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or written agreement.
Replanting.
In addition to the definition in the Basic Provisions, placing new seed into an existing damaged stand, using a reduced seeding rate from the original seeding rate, will not be considered replanting.
Sales closing date.
In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, a date contained in the Special Provisions by which an application must be filed and by which you may change your crop insurance coverage for a crop year. If the Special Provisions provide a sales closing date for both fall planted and spring planted practices for the insured crop and you plant any insurable fall planted acreage, you may not change your crop insurance coverage after the sales closing date for the fall planted practice.
Spring planted.
A forage crop seeded before July 1, except when specified in the Special Provisions.

# 2. Unit Division
A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will also be divided into
additional basic units by spring planted and fall planted acreage.

# 3. Amounts of Insurance.
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may only select one coverage level and the corresponding amount of insurance designated in the actuarial documents for the applicable type and practice for all the forage seeding in the county that is insured under this policy. The amount of insurance you choose for each type and practice must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum amount of insurance offered by us for each type and practice. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum amount of insurance for a specific type and practice, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum amount of insurance for all other types and practices.
(b) In counties with both fall and spring sales closing dates for the insured crop:
(1) If you do not have any insurable fall planted acreage, you may purchase or revise your coverage for your spring planted acreage until the spring sales closing date;
(2) In accordance with section 3(a), if you insured your fall planted acreage, you must insure your spring planted acreage with the same coverage as the fall planted acreage; and
(3) If you did not insure your fall planted acreage, you are not eligible to purchase insurance for the spring planted acreage.
(c) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, do not apply to forage seeding.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a March 15 cancellation date and April 30 preceding the cancellation date for all other counties.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates.
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State
Cancellation
Termination
Maine
March 15
March 15.
All other states
July 31
September 30.

# 6. Report of Acreage.
In lieu of the provisions of section 6(a) of the Basic Provisions, a report of all insured acreage of forage seeding must be submitted on or before each forage seeding acreage reporting date specified in the Special Provisions.

# 7. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the forage in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That is planted during the current crop year, or replanted during the calendar year following planting, to establish an adequate stand of forage;
(c) That is not grown with the intent to be grazed, or not grazed at any time during the insurance period; and
(d) That is not interplanted with another crop, except companion crops, unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.

# 8. Insurable Acreage.
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions, any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the spring final planting date, to the extent that such acreage has less than 75 percent of a normal planting density, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.

# 9. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions regarding when insurance ends, forage seeding insurance will end at the earliest of:
(a) Total destruction of the insured crop on the unit;
(b) The initial harvest of the unit, if a late harvest date is not listed in the Special Provisions;
(c) The first harvest after the late harvest date, if a late harvest date is specified in the Special Provisions (You may harvest the crop as often as practical in accordance with good farming practices on or before the late harvest date);
(d) Final adjustment of a loss on a unit;
(e) Abandonment of the insured crop;
(f) The date grazing commences on the insured crop; or
(g) The end of insurance period date shown in the actuarial documents.

# 10. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes that result in loss of, or failure to establish, an adequate stand that occurs during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; or
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.

# 11. Replanting Payment
In lieu of the provisions contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if:
(1) It is practical to replant;
(2) We give written consent to replant;
(3) In California, acreage planted to the insured crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss occurring before the spring final planting date in the actuarial documents to the extent that less than 75 percent of the normal planting density remains, and the crop can reach maturity before the end of the insurance period;
(4) In all other states:
(i) The insured spring or fall planted acreage is damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that less than 75 percent of the normal planting density remains;
(ii) If fall planted, the acreage is replanted the following spring by the spring final planting date; and
(iii) If spring planted, the original planting took place after the earliest planting date shown in the Special Provisions, and the acreage is replanted by the spring final planting date shown in the Special Provisions.
(b) The amount of the replanting payment will be equal to 50 percent of the amount of indemnity determined in accordance with section 13(a) unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(c) No replanting payment will be made on acreage for which one replanting payment has been allowed.
(d) If the information reported by you on the acreage report results in a lower premium than the actual premium determined to be due based on the acreage, share, practice, or type determined actually to have existed, the replanting payment will be reduced proportionately.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss.
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the representative samples of the crop must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after tilling of the balance of the unit is completed.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must give us written notice if, during the period before destroying the crop on any damaged fall planted acreage, you decide to replant the acreage by the spring final planting date.

# 13. Settlement of Claim.
In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim on any unit by:
(a) For each type and practice:
(1) Determining the value of all insured acreage by multiplying the number of insured acres by the dollar amount of insurance;
(2) Determining the value of the acreage with no insurable losses, by multiplying the dollar amount of insurance by the insured acreage that:
(i) Has at least 75 percent of an adequate stand;
(ii) Was abandoned or put to another use without our prior written consent;
(iii) Was damaged solely by an uninsured cause; or
(iv) Was harvested and not reseeded.
(3) Determining the value of the acreage with partial insurable losses, by multiplying the dollar amount of insurance by the number of insured acres that have a stand less than 75 percent but more than 55 percent of an adequate stand, by 50 percent (0.5);
(4) Adding the results in section 13(a)(2) and section 13(a)(3);
(5) Subtracting the results in section 13(a)(4) from the results in section 13(a)(1); and
(6) Multiplying the result in section 13(a)(3) by your share; and
(b) Totaling the results in section 13(a).

# Example:
Assume you have a 100 percent share in 30 acres of type A forage in the unit, with an amount of insurance of $100 per acre. At the time of loss, the following findings are established: 10 acres had a remaining stand of 75 percent of an adequate stand or greater. 20 acres had a remaining stand less than 75 percent but more than 55 percent of an adequate stand.
You also have a 100 percent share in 20 acres of type B forage in the unit, with an amount of insurance of $90 per acre. 10 acres had a remaining stand of 75 percent of an adequate stand or greater. 10 acres had a remaining stand less than 55 percent of an adequate stand.
Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
1. 30 acres × $100 = $3,000 amount of insurance for type A; 20 acres × $90 = $1,800 amount of insurance for type B;
2. 10 acres with 75% of an adequate stand or greater × $100 = $1,000 for type A; 10 acres with 75% of an adequate stand or greater × $90 = $900 for type B;
3. 20 acres with less than 75% but greater than 55% of an adequate stand × $100 × 50 percent = $1,000 for type A; 0 acres with less
than 75% but greater than 55% of an adequate stand × $90 × 50 percent = $0 for type B;
4. $1,000 + $1,000 = $2,000 reduction for type A; $900 + $0 = $900 reduction for type B;
5. $3,000 - $2,000 = $1,000 for type A; $1,800 - $900 = $900 for type B
6. $1,000 × 100 percent share = $1,000 for type A; $900 × 100 percent share = $900 for type B;
7. $1,000 + $900 = $1,900 total indemnity

# 14. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 13291, Mar. 20, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65175, Dec. 10, 1997; 65 FR 3784, Jan. 25, 2000; 65 FR 11457, Mar. 3, 2000; 66 FR 42730, Aug. 15, 2001; 66 FR 53076, Oct. 19, 2001; 67 FR 65030, Oct. 23, 2002; 76 FR 4804, Jan. 27, 2011; 85 FR 23900, Apr. 30, 2020; 86 FR 22583, Apr. 29, 2021]
§ 457.152
Hybrid seed corn crop insurance provisions.
The Hybrid Seed Corn Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2017 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured policies

# Hybrid Seed Corn Crop Provisions
If a conflict exists among the policy provisions, the order of priority is as follows: (1) The Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, if applicable; (2) the Special Provisions; (3) these Crop Provisions; and (4) the Basic Provisions, (§ 457.8) with (1) controlling (2), etc.

# 1. Definitions
Adjusted yield.
An amount determined by multiplying the county yield by the coverage level factor.
Amount of insurance per acre.
A dollar amount determined by multiplying the adjusted yield by the price election you select and subtracting any minimum guaranteed payment, not to exceed the total compensation specified in the hybrid seed corn processor contract. If your hybrid seed corn processor contract contains a minimum guaranteed payment that is stated in bushels, we will convert that value to dollars by multiplying it by the price election you selected.
Approved yield.
In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, an amount FCIC determines to be representative of the yield that the female parent plants are expected to produce when grown under a specific production practice. FCIC will establish the approved yield based upon records provided by the seed company and other information it deems appropriate.
Bushel.
Fifty-six pounds avoirdupois of shelled corn, 70 pound avoirdupois of ear corn, or the number of pounds determined under the seed company's normal conversion chart when that chart is used to determine the approved yield and the claim for indemnity.
Certified seed test.
A warm germination test performed on clean seed according to specifications of the “Rules for Testing Seeds” of the Association of Official Seed Analysts.
Commercial hybrid seed corn.
The offspring produced by crossing a male and female parent plant, each having a different genetic character. This offspring is the product intended for use by an agricultural producer to produce a commercial field corn crop for grain.
County yield.
An amount contained in the actuarial documents that is established by FCIC to represent the yield that a producer of hybrid seed corn would be expected to produce if the acreage had been planted to commercial field corn.
Coverage level factor.
A factor contained in the Special Provisions to adjust the county yield for commercial field corn to reflect the higher value of hybrid seed corn.
Dollar value per bushel.
An amount that determines the value of any seed production to count. It is determined by dividing the amount of insurance per acre by the result of multiplying the approved yield by the coverage level percentage, expressed as a decimal.
Female parent plants.
Corn plants that are grown for the purpose of producing commercial hybrid seed corn and have had the stamens removed or are otherwise male sterile.
Field run.
Commercial hybrid seed corn production before it has been dried, screened, or processed.
Good farming practices.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, good farming practices include those practices required by the hybrid seed corn processor contract.
Harvest.
Combining, threshing or picking ears from the female parent plants to obtain commercial hybrid seed corn.
Hybrid seed corn processor contract.
An agreement executed between the hybrid seed corn crop producer and a seed company containing, at a minimum:
(a) The producer's promise to plant and grow male and female parent plants, and to deliver all commercial hybrid seed corn produced from such plants to the seed company;
(b) The seed company's promise to purchase the commercial hybrid seed corn produced by the producer; and
(c) Either a fixed price per unit of measure (bushels, hundredweight, etc.) of the commercial hybrid seed corn or a formula to determine the value of such seed. Any formula for establishing the value must be based on data provided by a public third party that establishes or provides pricing information to the general public, based on prices paid in the open market (
e.g.,
commodity futures exchanges), to be acceptable for the purpose of this policy.
Inadequate germination.
Germination of less than 80 percent of the commercial hybrid seed corn as determined by using a certified seed test.
Insurable interest.
Your share of the financial loss that occurs in the event seed production is damaged by a cause of loss specified in section 10.
Local market price.
The cash price offered by buyers for any production from the female parent plants that is not considered commercial hybrid seed corn under the terms of this policy.
Male parent plants.
Corn plants grown for the purpose of pollinating female parent plants.
Minimum guaranteed payment.
A minimum amount (usually stated in dollars or bushels) specified in your hybrid seed corn processor contract that will be paid or credited to you by the seed company regardless of the quantity of seed produced.
Non-seed production.
Production that does not qualify as seed production because of inadequate germination.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, the insured crop must be planted in rows wide enough to permit mechanical cultivation, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.
Planting pattern.
The arrangement of the rows of the male and female parent plants in a field. An example of a planting pattern is four consecutive rows of female parent plants followed by two consecutive rows of male parent plants.
Practical to replant.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, practical to replant applies to either the female or male parent plant. It will not be considered practical to replant unless production from the replanted acreage can be delivered under the terms of the hybrid seed corn processor contract, or the seed company agrees that it will accept the production from the replanted acreage.
Prevented planting.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, prevented planting applies to the female and male parent plants. The male parent plants must be planted in accordance with the requirements of the hybrid seed corn processor contract to be considered planted.
Sample.
For the purpose of the certified seed test, at least 3 pounds of randomly selected field run shelled corn for each variety of commercial hybrid seed corn grown on the unit.
Seed company.
A business enterprise that possesses all licenses for marketing commercial hybrid seed corn required by the state in which it is domiciled or operates, and which possesses facilities with enough storage and drying capacity to accept and process the insured crop within a reasonable amount of time after harvest. If the seed company is the insured, it must also be a corporation.
Seed production.
All seed produced by female parent plants with a germination rate of at least 80 percent as determined by a certified seed test.
Shelled corn.
Kernels that have been removed from the cob.
Variety.
The name, number or code assigned to a specific genetic cross by the seed company or the Special Provisions for the insured crop in the county.

# 2. Unit Division
For any processor contract that stipulates the amount of production to be delivered:
(a) In lieu of the definition of “basic unit” contained in the Basic Provisions, a basic unit will consist of all acreage planted to the insured crop in the county that will be used to fulfill a hybrid seed corn processor contract;
(b) There will be no more than one basic unit for all production contracted with each processor contract;
(c) In accordance with section 12, all production from any basic unit in excess of the amount under contract will be included as production to count if such production is applied to any other basic unit for which the contracted amount has not been fulfilled; and
(d) Optional units will not be established.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one price election for all the hybrid seed corn in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions provide different price elections by variety, in which case you may select one price election for each hybrid seed corn variety designated in the Special Provisions. The price election you choose for each variety must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each variety. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one specific variety, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other varieties.
(b) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 of the Basic Provisions are not applicable to this contract.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must:
(a) Report by type and variety, the location and insurable acreage of the insured crop;
(b) Report any acreage that is uninsured, including that portion of the total acreage occupied by male parent plants; and
(c) Certify that you have a hybrid seed corn processor contract and report the amount, if any, of any minimum guaranteed payment.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the female parent plants in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are grown under a hybrid seed corn processor contract executed before the acreage reporting date;
(3) That are planted for harvest as commercial hybrid seed corn in accordance with the requirements of the hybrid seed corn processor contract and the production management practices of the seed company; and
(4) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Planted with a mixture of female and male parent seed in the same row;
(ii) Planted for any purpose other than for commercial hybrid seed corn;
(iii) Interplanted with another crop; or
(iv) Planted into an established grass or legume.
(b) An instrument in the form of a “lease” under which you retain control of the acreage on which the insured crop is grown and that provides for delivery of the crop under substantially the same terms as a hybrid seed corn processor contract will be treated as a contract under which you have an insurable interest in the crop.
(c) A commercial hybrid seed corn producer who is also a seed company may be able to insure the hybrid seed corn crop if the following requirements are met:
(1) The seed company has an insurable interest in the hybrid seed corn crop;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors of the seed company has executed and adopted a corporate resolution that contains the same terms as a hybrid seed corn processor contract. This corporate resolution will be considered a contract under this policy;
(3) Sales records for at least the previous years' seed production must be provided to confirm that the seed company has produced and sold seed. If such records are not available, the crop may be insured under the Coarse Grains Crop Provisions with a written agreement; and
(4) Our inspection reveals that the storage and drying facilities satisfy the definition of a seed company.
(d) Any of the insured crop that is under contract with different seed companies may be insured under separate policies with different insurance providers provided all acreage of the insured crop in the county is insured. If you elect to insure the insured crop with different insurance providers, you agree to pay separate administrative fees for each insurance policy.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any acreage of the insured crop:
(a) Planted and occupied exclusively by male parent plants;
(b) Not in compliance with the rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions or, if applicable, required by the hybrid seed corn processor contract; or
(c) If either the female or male parent plants are damaged before the final planting date and we determine that the insured crop is practical to replant but it is not replanted.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, insurance attaches upon completion of planting of:
(1) The female parent plant seed on or before the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions, except as allowed in section 16 of the Basic Provisions; and
(2) The male parent plant seed.
(b) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the October 31 immediately following planting.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss contained in section 10(a) (1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded by section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any loss of production due to:
(1) The use of unadapted, incompatible, or genetically deficient male or female parent plant seed;
(2) Frost or freeze after the date established by the Special Provisions;
(3) Failure to follow the requirements stated in the hybrid seed corn processor contract and production management practices of the seed company;
(4) Inadequate germination, even if resulting from an insured cause of loss, unless you have provided adequate notice as required by section 11(b)(1); or
(5) Failure to plant the male parent plant seed at a time or in a manner sufficient to assure adequate pollination of the female parent plants, unless you are prevented from planting the male parent plant seed by an insured cause of loss.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must leave representative samples of at least one complete planting pattern of the female and male parent plant rows that extend the entire length of each field in the unit. If you are going to destroy any acreage of the insured crop that will not be harvested, the samples must not be destroyed until after our inspection.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) You must give us notice of probable loss at least 15 days before the beginning of harvest if you anticipate inadequate germination on any unit; and
(2) You must provide a completed copy of your hybrid seed corn processor contract unless we have determined it has already been provided by the seed company, and the seed company certifies that such contract is used for all its growers without any waivers or amendments.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) You will not receive an indemnity payment on a unit if the seed company refuses to provide us with records we require to determine the dollar value per bushel of production for each variety.
(c) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim on any unit by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective amount of insurance per acre, by type and variety if applicable;
(2) Totaling the results of section 12(c)(1) if there are more than one type or variety;
(3) Multiplying the total seed production to count (see section 12(d)) for each type and variety of commercial hybrid seed corn by the applicable dollar value per bushel for that type or variety;
(4) Multiplying the total non-seed production to count (see section 12(e)) for each type and variety by the applicable local market price determined on the earlier of the date the non-seed production is sold or the date of final inspection;
(5) Totaling the results of sections 12(c)(3) and 12(c)(4) by type and variety;
(6) Subtracting the result of section 12(c)(5) from the result of section 12(c)(1) if there is only one type or variety, or subtracting the result of 12(c)(5) from the result of section 12(c)(2) if there are more than one type or variety; and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 12(c)(6) by your share. For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 50 acres insured for the development of variety “A” hybrid seed corn in the unit, with an amount of insurance per acre guarantee of $340 (county yield of 160 bushels times a coverage level factor of .867 for the 65 percent coverage level, times a price election of $2.45 per bushel, minus the minimum guaranteed payment of zero). Your seed production was 1,400 bushels and the dollar value per bushel was $9.80. Your non-seed production was 100 bushels with a local market value of $2.00 per bushel. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50 acres × $340 = $17,000 amount of insurance guarantee;
(3) 1,400 bushels × $9.80 = $13,720 value of seed production;
(4) 100 bushel of non-seed × $2.00 = $200 of non-seed production;
(5) $13,720 + $200 = $13,920;
(6) $17,000 − $13,920 = $3,080; and
(7) $3,080 × 100 percent share = $3,080 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 50 acres insured for the development of variety “B” hybrid seed corn in the unit, with an amount of insurance per acre guarantee of
$297 (county yield of 140 bushels times a coverage level factor of .867 for the 65 percent coverage level, times a price election of $2.45 per bushel, minus the minimum guaranteed payment of zero). You harvested 1,200 bushels and the dollar value per bushel for the harvested amount was $8.56. You also harvested 200 bushels of non-seed with a market value of $2.00 per bushel. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50 acres × $340 = $17,000 amount of insurance guarantee for type “A” and 50 acres × $297 = $14,850 amount of insurance guarantee for type “B”;
(2) $17,000 + $14,850 = $31,850 amount of insurance guarantee;
(3) 1,400 bushels × $9.80 = $13,720 value of seed production for type “A” and 1,200 bushels × $8.56 = $10,272 value of seed production for type “B”;
(4) 100 bushels of non-seed × $2.00 = $200 of non-seed production for type “A” and 200 bushels of non-seed × $2.00 = $400 of non-seed production for type “B”;
(5) $13,720 + $200 + $10,272 + $400 = $24,592 value of production to count;
(6) $31,850 − $24,592 = $7,258; and
(7) $7,258 × 100 percent share = $7,258 indemnity payment.
(d) Production to be counted as seed production will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the amount of insurance per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Mature unharvested production with a germination rate of at least 80 percent of the commercial hybrid seed corn as determined by a certified seed test. Any such production may be adjusted in accordance with section 12(f);
(iv) Immature appraised production;
(v) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) Harvested production that you deliver as commercial hybrid seed corn to the seed company stated in your hybrid seed corn processor contract, regardless of quality, unless the production has inadequate germination.
(e) Production to be counted as non-seed production will include all harvested or mature appraised production that does not qualify as seed production to count as specified in section 12(d). Any such production may be adjusted in accordance with section 12(f).
(f) For the purpose of determining the quantity of mature production:
(1) Shelled commercial hybrid seed corn will be:
(i) Increased 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture below 15 percent; or
(ii) Decreased 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of 15 percent.
(2) The weight of ear corn required to equal one bushel of shelled seed corn will be increased 1.5 pounds for each full percentage point of moisture in excess of 14 percent, and any portion of a percentage point will be disregarded. The moisture content of ear corn will be determined from a shelled sample of the ear corn.
(3) When records of commercial hybrid seed corn production provided by the seed company have been adjusted to a shelled corn basis of 15.0 percent moisture and 56 pound avoirdupois bushels, sections 12(f)(1) and (2) above will not apply to harvested production. In such cases, records of the seed company will be used to determine the amount of production to count, provided that the moisture and weight of such production are calculated on the same basis as that used to determine the approved yield.

# 13. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your amount of insurance for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented
planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 65350, Dec. 12, 1997; 62 FR 67117, Dec. 23, 1997, as amended at 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016]
§ 457.153
Peach crop insurance provisions.
The Peach Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured policies:

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Peach Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Bearing tree.
A tree in at least the 4th growing season after set out.
Bushel.
Fifty pounds of ungraded peaches.
Fresh peach production.
Peach production from insurable acreage that:
(1) Is sold, or could be sold, for human consumption without undergoing any change in the basic form, such as peeling, juicing, crushing, etc.
(2) Grades at least U.S. Extra No. 1 or better, and consisting of a 2
1/4
inch minimum diameter, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(3) Is from acreage that is designated as fresh peaches on the acreage report;
(4) Follows the recommended cultural practices generally in use for fresh peach acreage in the area in a manner generally recognized by agricultural experts;
(5) Is from acreage that you certify, and if requested by us, provide verifiable records to support, that at least 50 percent of the total production from acreage reported as fresh peach acreage was sold as fresh peaches in one or more of the four most recent crop years; and
(6) Is sold or could have been sold for a price that is not less than the applicable fresh peach price election for the applicable crop year in the actuarial documents. If the fresh peach production is sold or could have been sold for a price less than the applicable fresh peach price election for the applicable crop year in the actuarial documents, you must provide verifiable records to show that the price received was at least the amount paid by buyers for fresh peaches in the area in which you sell your peaches.
Harvest.
The picking or removal of mature peaches from the trees either by hand or machine.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Loss in quality.
When the crop is damaged to the extent that the producer does not receive the average price for U.S. Extra No. 1 peach.
Marketable.
Peach production acceptable for processing or other human consumption even if failing to meet any U.S. or applicable state grading standard.
Packing shed.
A facility at which peaches are graded, packed and cooled in preparation for shipment to a wholesale market.
Post production cost.
The costs, as specified in the Special Provisions, associated with activities that occur during harvesting, packing, transportation, and marketing, as determined by FCIC using regional peach price data of peach production budgets from regional respective universities extension, other USDA agencies, and other third party resources.
Processing peach production.
Peach production from insurable acreage that is:
(i) Sold, or could be sold, for the purpose of undergoing a change to its basic structure such as peeling, juicing, crushing, etc.; or
(ii) From acreage designated as processing peaches on the acreage report.
Set out.
Transplanting the tree into the orchard.

# 2. Unit Division
In addition to the requirements contained in section 34 of the Basic Provisions, optional units may be established if each optional unit is:
(a) Located on non-contiguous land; or
(b) By fresh and processing.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(a) You may select a separate coverage level for all fresh peach acreage and for all processing peach acreage. For example, if you choose the 55 percent coverage level for all fresh peach acreage, you may choose the 75 percent coverage level for all processing peach acreage.
(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if you elect the Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) level of coverage for fresh peach acreage or processing peach acreage, the CAT level of coverage will be applicable to all insured peach acreage in the county of both fresh and processing peaches.
(2) If you only have fresh peach acreage designated on your acreage report and processing peach acreage is added after the sales closing date, we will assign a coverage level equal to the coverage level you selected for your fresh peach acreage.
(3) If you only have processing peach acreage designated on your acreage report and fresh peach acreage is added after the sales closing date, we will assign a coverage level equal to the coverage level you selected for your processing peach acreage.
(b) You may select only one price election for all the peaches in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by fresh and processing peaches. If the actuarial documents provide different price elections, you may select a separate price election for all your fresh peaches and for all your processing peaches. If the actuarial documents do not provide different price elections, the price elections you choose for fresh peaches and processing peaches must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for fresh and processing peaches. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for fresh peaches, you must choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for processing peaches.
(c) You must report, not later than the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, separately by fresh and processing peach acreage, as applicable:
(1) Any event or action that could impact the yield potential of the insured crop including, interplanting of a perennial crop, removal of trees, any tree damage, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing and non-bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees, variety, and the planting pattern; and
(4) For the first year of insurance, acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and anytime the planting pattern of such acreage is changed:
(i) The age of the crop that is interplanted with the peaches;
(ii) The variety;
(iii) The planting pattern; and
(iv) Any other reasonable and pertinent information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(d) We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any situation listed in sections 3(c)(1) through (4). If the situation occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period, we will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee for the current crop year as necessary. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your production guarantee at any time we become aware of the circumstance;
(2) Or may occur after the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the yield used to establish your production guarantee is due to an uninsured cause of loss;
(3) Or may occur after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, production lost due to uninsured causes equal to the amount of the reduction in yield used to establish your production guarantee will be applied in determining any indemnity (see section 12(c)(1)(ii)). We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee for the subsequent crop year.
(e) You may not increase your elected or assigned coverage level or the ratio of your price election to the maximum price election if a cause of loss that could or would reduce the yield of the insured crop has occurred prior to the time that you request the increase.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are November 20.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the requirements contained in section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must report and designate all acreage of peaches as fresh or processing peaches by the acreage reporting date. Any acreage not meeting all the requirements to qualify for fresh peach production must be designated on the acreage report as processing peach production.

# 7. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), the crop insured will be all the peaches in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown on tree varieties that:
(1) Were commercially available when the trees were set out;
(2) Are a variety having a chilling hour requirement that is appropriate for the area;
(3) Are grown on a root stock that is adapted to the area.
(c) That the crop insured will be any varieties of peaches that are grown for the production of Fresh or Processing Peaches.
(d) That are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us; and
(e) That are grown on trees that have reached at least the fourth leaf year, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, peaches interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) Coverage begins on November 21 of each crop year, except that for the year of application, if your application is received after November 11 but prior to November 21, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 10-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop to determine the condition of the orchard.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is September 30.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8):
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable interest on any acreage of peaches on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year and if the acreage was insured by you the previous crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.
(c) Notwithstanding section 9(a)(1) of this section, for each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(d) If your peach policy is canceled or terminated for any crop year, in accordance with the terms of the policy, after insurance attached for that crop year but on or before the cancellation and termination dates, whichever is later, insurance will not be considered to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Earthquake;
(4) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(5) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(6) Volcanic eruption;
(7) Wildlife, unless control measures have not been taken;
(8) An insufficient number of chilling hours to effectively break dormancy; or
(9) Failure of irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Split pits, regardless of cause; or
(2) Inability to market the peaches for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must leave representative samples in accordance with our procedures.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), and unless the insurance period has ended prior
to each of the following events, the following will apply:
(1) You must notify us within three days of the date that harvest of the damaged variety should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(2) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested, unless you have records verifying that the direct market peaches were “weighed and graded” through a packing shed. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(3) If you previously gave notice in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8), and if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must notify us at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest of the damaged variety, so that we may inspect the damaged production. You must not sell or dispose of the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so.
(4) If you fail to meet the requirements of this section and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for fresh and processing peaches, as applicable, by the respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election;
(3) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production of fresh and processing peaches to be counted, as applicable (see subsection 12(c)) by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the total in section 12(b)(5) from the total in section 12(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 12(b)(6) by your share.

# Example:
You have a 100 percent share in one basic unit with 10 acres of fresh peaches and 5 acres of processing peaches designated on your acreage report, with a 300 bushel per acre production guarantee for both fresh and processing peaches, and you select 100 percent of the price election of $15.50 per bushel for fresh peaches and $6.50 per bushel for processing peaches. You harvest 2,500 bushels of fresh peaches and 500 bushels of processing peaches. Your indemnity will be calculated as follows:
(A) 10 acres × 300 bushels = 3,000-bushel production guarantee of fresh peaches;
5 acres × 300 bushels = 1,500-bushel production guarantee of processing peaches;
(B) 3,000-bushel production guarantee × $15.50 price election = $46,500 value of the production guarantee for fresh peaches; 1,500-bushel production guarantee × $6.50 price election = $9,750 value of the production guarantee for processing peaches;
(C) $46,500 value of the production guarantee for fresh peaches + $9,750 value of the production guarantee for processing peaches = $56,250 total value of the production guarantee;
(D) 2,500 bushels of fresh peach production to count × $15.50 price election = $38,750 value of the fresh peach production to count; 500 bushels of processing peach production to count × $6.50 price election = $3,250 value of the processing peach production to count;
(E) $38,750 value of the fresh peach production to count + $3,250 value of the processing peach production to count = $42,000 total value of the production to count;
(F) $56,250 total value of the production guarantee—$42,000 total value of the production to count = $14,250 value of loss; and
(G) $14,250 value of loss × 100 percent share = $14,250 indemnity payment.
[End of Example]
(c) The total production to count (in bushels) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) From which production is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 11.
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested peach production that would be marketable if harvested;
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then
make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to adequately care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(v) Any appraised production on insured acreage will be considered production to count unless such production is exceeded by the actual harvested production.
(2) All harvested marketable peach production from the insurable acreage.
(3) Mature marketable peach production may be reduced as a result of a loss in quality due to an insured cause of loss. The amount of production to count for such peaches will be determined as follows:
(i) For fresh peaches by:
(A) Dividing the value of the damaged peaches minus the post production cost specified in the Special Provisions, by the fresh peach price election; and
(B) Multiplying the result of section 12(c)(3)(i)(A) (not to exceed 1.00) by the number of bushels of the damaged fresh peaches.
(ii) For processing peaches by:
(A) Dividing the value of the damaged peaches minus the post production cost specified in the Special Provisions, by the processing peach price election; and
(B) Multiplying the result of section 12(c)(3)(ii)(A) (not to exceed 1.00) by the number of bushels of the damaged processing peaches.
(4) Peaches that cannot be marketed due to insurable causes will not be considered production to count.

# 13. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 39923, July 25, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65176, Dec. 10, 1997; 65 FR 47839, Aug. 4, 2000; 77 FR 52592, Aug. 31, 2012; 87 FR 38897, June 30, 2022]
§ 457.154
Processing sweet corn crop insurance provisions.
The Processing Sweet Corn Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Processing Sweet Corn Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Processing Sweet Corn Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Base contract price.
The price stipulated on the processor contract without regard to discounts or incentives that may apply.
Bypassed acreage.
Land on which production is ready for harvest but the processor elects not to accept such production so it is not harvested.
Good farming practices.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, cultural practices required by the processor contract.
Harvest.
The removal of the ears from the stalks for the purpose of delivery to the processor.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, sweet corn must initially be placed in rows far enough apart to permit mechanical cultivation. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.
Practical to replant.
In addition to the definition in the Basic Provisions, it will not be considered practical to replant unless the replanted acreage can produce at least 75 percent of the approved yield, and the processor agrees in writing that it will accept the production from the replanted acreage.
Price election.
In lieu of the definition of price election in the Basic Provisions, the price election will be the base contract price stated in your processor contract.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in canning or freezing processing sweet corn for human consumption, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing sweet corn required by the state in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process contracted processing sweet corn within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
(1) A written contract between the producer and a processor, containing at a minimum:
(i) The producer's commitment to plant and grow sweet corn, and to deliver the sweet corn production to the processor;
(ii) The processor's commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processor contract; and
(iii) A base contract price.
(2) Multiple contracts with the same processor that specify amounts of production will be considered as a single processor contract, unless the contracts are for different types. Your base contract price will be the weighted average of all applicable base contract prices.
Ton.
Two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.
Unhusked ear weight.
Weight of the seed-bearing spike of sweet corn including the membranous or green outer envelope.
Usable tons.
The quantity of sweet corn for which the producer is compensated or should have been compensated by the processor.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) For processor contracts that stipulate the amount of production to be delivered:
(1) In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, a basic unit will consist of all acreage planted to the insured crop in the county that will be used to fulfill contracts with each processor;
(i) There will be no more than one basic unit for all production contracted with each processor contract;
(ii) In accordance with section 12, all production from any basic unit in excess of the amount under contract will be included as production to count if such production is applied to any other basic unit for which the contracted amount has not been fulfilled; and
(2) Section 34(c) of the Basic Provisions that allows optional units is not applicable.
(b) For processor contracts that stipulate the number of acres to be planted, optional units as provided in section 34(c) of the Basic Provisions will apply.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election percentage for all the processing sweet corn in the county insured under this policy. The percentage of the maximum price election you choose for one type will be applicable to all other types insured under this policy.
(b) The insurance guarantee per acre is expressed as tons of unhusked ear weight. Any other measured production will be converted to an unhusked ear weight equivalent.
(c) The appraised production from bypassed acreage that could have been accepted by the processor will be included when determining your approved yield.
(d) Acreage that is bypassed because it was damaged by an insurable cause of loss will be considered to have a zero yield when determining your approved yield.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of all processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the processing sweet corn in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That is grown under, and in accordance with, the requirements of a processor contract executed on or before the acreage reporting date and not excluded from the processor contract at any time during the crop year; and
(3) That is not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Interplanted with another crop; or
(ii) Planted into an established grass or legume.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the processor contract, you retain control of the acreage on which the sweet corn is grown, you are at risk of loss, and the processor contract provides for delivery of sweet corn under specified conditions and at a stipulated base contract price.
(c) A commercial sweet corn producer who is also a processor may establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors or officers of the processor must execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as an acceptable processor contract. Such resolution will be considered a processor contract under this policy; and
(3) Our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of a processor contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Any acreage of the insured crop that is damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant; and
(b) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements, if applicable, contained in the Special Provisions.

# 9. Insurance Period
In lieu of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, regarding the end of the insurance period, insurance ceases at the earlier of:
(a) The date the sweet corn:
(1) Was destroyed;
(2) Should have been harvested but was not harvested;
(3) Was abandoned; or
(4) Was harvested;
(b) The date you harvest sufficient production to fulfill your processor contract if the processor contract stipulates a specific amount of production to be delivered;
(c) Final adjustment of a loss; or
(d) The end of insurance date specified in the Special Provisions or otherwise allowed by written agreement.

# 10. Causes of Loss
In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions, including:
(i) Excessive moisture that prevents harvesting equipment from entering the field or that prevents the timely operation of harvesting equipment; and
(ii) Abnormally hot or cold temperatures that cause an unexpected number of acres over a large producing area to be ready for harvest at the same time, affecting the timely harvest of a large number of such acres or the processing of such production is beyond the capacity of the processor, either of which causes the acreage to be bypassed.
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures or as otherwise limited by the Special Provisions;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss listed in section 10(a)(1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any loss of production due to:
(1) Bypassed acreage because of:
(i) The breakdown or non-operation of equipment or facilities; or
(ii) The availability of a crop insurance payment. We may deny any indemnity immediately in such circumstance or, if an indemnity has been paid, require you to repay it to us with interest at any time acreage was bypassed due to the availability of a crop insurance payment; or
(2) Your failure to follow the requirements contained in the processor contract.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must give us notice:
(a) Not later than 48 hours after:
(1) Total destruction of the sweet corn on the unit; or
(2) Discontinuance of harvest on a unit on which unharvested production remains.
(b) Within 3 days after the date harvest should have started on any acreage that will not be harvested unless we have previously released the acreage. You must also provide acceptable documentation of the reason the acreage was bypassed. Failure to provide such documentation will result in our determination that the acreage was bypassed due to an uninsured cause of loss. If the crop will not be harvested and you wish to destroy the crop, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop for our inspection. The samples must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in each unit. The samples must not be destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after notice is given to us; and
(c) At least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, or immediately if damage is discovered during the 15-day period or during harvest, so that we may inspect any damaged production. If you fail to notify us and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, we will consider all such production to be undamaged and include it as production to count. You are not required to delay harvest.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate, acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee, by type if applicable;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election, by type if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(2) if there are more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the total production to count (see section 12(c)), for each type if applicable, by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(4) if there are more than one type;
(6) Subtracting the results of section 12(b)(4) from the results of section 12(b)(2) if there is only one type or subtracting the results of section 12(b)(5) from the result of section 12(b)(3) if there are more than one type; and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(6) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of type A processing sweet corn in the unit, with a guarantee of 6.0 tons per acre and a price election of $100.00 per ton. You are only able to harvest 200 tons. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 6.0 tons = 600 tons guarantee;
(2) 600 tons × $100.00 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) 200 tons × $100.00 price election = $20,000.00 value of production to count;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) $60,000.00−$20,000.00 = $40,000.00 loss; and
(7) $40,000.00 × 100 percent = $40,000.00 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of type B processing sweet corn in the same unit, with a guarantee of 60 tons per acre and a price election of $90.00 per ton. You are only able to harvest 350 tons. Your total indemnity for both types A and B would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 6.0 tons = 600 tons guarantee for type A, and 100 acres × 6.0 tons = 600 tons guarantee for type B;
(2) 600 tons × $100.00 price election = $60,000.00 value of guarantee for type A, and 600 tons × $90.00 price election = $54,000.00 value of guarantee for type B;
(3) $60,000.00 + $54,000.00 = $114,000.00 total value of guarantee;
(4) 200 tons × $100.00 price election = $20,000.00 value of production to count for type A, and 350 tons × $90.00 price election = $31,500.00 value of production to count for type B;
(5) $20,000.00 + $31,500.00 = $51,500.00 total value of production to count;
(6) $114,000.00−$51,500.00 = $62,500.00 loss; and
(7) $62,500.00 loss × 100 percent = $62,500.00 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production to count, specified in tons of unhusked ear weight, from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us.
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes.
(iii) Production on acreage that is bypassed unless the acreage was bypassed due to an insured cause of loss which resulted in production which would not be acceptable under the terms of the processor contract.
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested.
(2) All harvested processing sweet corn production from the insurable acreage. The amount of such production will be:
(i) The usable tons of processing sweet corn shown on the processor settlement sheet, if available; or
(ii) Determined by dividing the dollar amount paid, payable, or which should have been paid under the terms of the processor contract for the quantity of the sweet corn delivered to the processor by the base contract price per ton; and
(3) All harvested processing sweet corn production from any other insurable units that have been used to fulfill your processor contract for this unit.
The total production to count will be expressed as an unhusked ear weight. Any other measure of production will be converted to an unhusked ear weight equivalent.

# 13. Late Planting
A late planting period is not applicable to processing sweet corn unless allowed by the Special Provisions and you provide written approval from the processor by the acreage reporting date that it will accept the production from the late planted acres when it is expected to be ready for harvest.

# 14. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 65342, Dec. 12, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 4804, Jan. 27, 2011; 78 FR 55173, Sept. 10, 2013; 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016; 87 FR 72363, Nov. 25, 2022; 89 FR 93469, Nov. 27, 2024]
§ 457.155
Processing bean crop insurance provisions.
The Processing Bean Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Processing Bean Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Processing Bean Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Base contract price.
The price stipulated in the processor contract for the grade factor or sieve size that is designated in the Special Provisions, if applicable, without regard to discounts or incentives that may apply.
Broker.
A business enterprise that has all the licenses and permits required by the state in which it operates, and has a long term agreement in writing with a processor to purchase and deliver processing beans.
Bypassed acreage.
Land on which production is ready for harvest but the processor elects not to accept such production so it is not harvested.
Good farming practices.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, good farming practices include those practices required by the processor contract.
Harvest.
The mechanical picking of bean pods from the vines.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, beans must initially be placed in rows far enough apart to permit mechanical cultivation to be considered planted. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition of “Practical to replant” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors including, but not limited to, moisture availability, condition of the field, time to crop maturity, and marketing window, that replanting the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant unless the replanted acreage can produce at least 75 percent of the approved yield, and the processor agrees in writing that it will accept the production from the replanted acreage.
Processing beans.
Lima, snap, or other bean types identified in the Special Provisions that are grown under a processor contract to be canned or frozen and sold for human consumption.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in canning or freezing processing beans for human consumption, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing beans required by the state in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process the contracted beans within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
A written agreement between the producer and a processor, or between the producer and a broker, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow processing beans, and to deliver the bean production to the processor or broker;
(b) The processor's, or broker's, commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processor contract; and
(c) A base contract price.
Multiple contracts with the same processor that specify amounts of production will be considered as a single processor contract unless the contracts are for different types of processing beans.
Ton.
Two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.
Type.
A category of processing beans identified as a type in the Special Provisions.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) For any processor contract that stipulates the amount of production to be delivered:
(1) In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, a basic unit will consist of all acreage planted to the insured crop in the county that will be used to fulfill contracts with each processor;
(i) There will be no more than one basic unit for all production contracted with each processor contract;
(ii) In accordance with section 12, all production from any basic unit in excess of the amount under contract will be included as
production to count if such production is applied to any other basic unit for which the contracted amount has not been fulfilled; and
(2) Optional units as provided in section 34(c) of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
(b) For any processor contract that stipulates the number of acres to be planted, in addition to, or instead of, establishing optional units as provided in section 34(c) of the Basic Provisions, optional units may be established by type if acreage of one type does not continue into acreage of another type in the same rows or planting pattern.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the processing beans in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions provide different price elections by type. The percentage of the maximum price elections you choose for one type will be applicable to all other types insured under this policy.
(b) The appraised production from bypassed acreage that could have been accepted by the processor will be included when determining your approved yield.
(c) Acreage that is bypassed because it was damaged by an insurable cause of loss will be considered to have a zero yield when determining your approved yield.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of all processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the processing beans in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are grown under, and in accordance with, the requirements of a processor contract executed on or before the acreage reporting date and are not excluded from the processor contract at any time during the crop year; and
(3) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Interplanted with another crop; or
(ii) Planted into an established grass or legume.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the processor contract, you retain control of the acreage on which the processing beans are grown, you are at risk of loss, and the processor contract provides for delivery of the processing beans under specified conditions and at a stipulated base contract price.
(c) A commercial processing bean producer who is also a processor or broker may establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors or officers of the processor or the broker must execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as an acceptable processor contract. Such resolution will be considered a processor contract under this policy; and
(3) Our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of a processor contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Any acreage of the insured crop that is damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant; and
(b) We will not insure acreage that does not meet any rotation requirements, if applicable, contained in the Special Provisions.

# 9. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions contained in section 11 of the Basic Provisions, regarding the end of the insurance period, insurance ceases at the earlier of:
(a) The date the processing beans:
(1) Were destroyed;
(2) Should have been harvested but were not harvested;
(3) Were abandoned; or
(4) Were harvested;
(b) The date you harvest sufficient production to fulfill your processor contract if the processor contract stipulates a specific amount of production to be delivered;
(c) Final adjustment of a loss; or
(d) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period shown in the Special Provisions, unless otherwise modified by written agreement.

# 10. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions, including:
(i) Excessive moisture that prevents the harvesting equipment from entering the field or that prevents the timely operation of harvesting equipment; and
(ii) Abnormally hot or cold temperatures that cause an unexpected number of acres over a large producing area to be ready for harvest at the same time, affecting the timely harvest of a large number of such acres or the processing of such production is beyond the capacity of the processor, either of which causes the acreage to be bypassed.
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease on acreage not planted to processing beans the previous crop year. (In certain instances, contained in the Special Provisions or in a written agreement, acreage planted to processing beans the previous year may be covered. Damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures is not covered);
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss contained in section 10 (a)(1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any loss of production due to:
(1) Bypassed acreage because of:
(i) The breakdown or non-operation of equipment or facilities; or
(ii) The availability of a crop insurance payment. We may deny any indemnity immediately in such circumstance or, if an indemnity has been paid, require you to repay it to us with interest at any time acreage was bypassed due to the availability of a crop insurance payment; or
(2) Your failure to follow the requirements contained in the processor contract.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the notice required by section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must give us notice:
(a) Not later than 48 hours after:
(1) Total destruction of the processing beans on the unit; or
(2) Discontinuance of harvest on a unit on which unharvested production remains.
(b) Within 3 days after the date harvest should have started on any acreage that will not be harvested unless we have previously released the acreage. You must also provide acceptable documentation of the reason the acreage was bypassed. Failure to provide such documentation will result in our determination that the acreage was bypassed due to an uninsured cause of loss. If the crop will not be harvested and you wish to destroy the crop, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop for our inspection. The samples must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in each unit. The samples must not be destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after notice is given to us; and
(c) At least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, or immediately if damage is discovered during the 15 day period or during harvest. If you fail to notify us and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, we will consider all such production to be undamaged and include it as production to count. You are not required to delay harvest.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate, acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee, by type if applicable;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election, by type if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(2) if there are more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the total production to count (see section 12(c)), for each type if applicable, by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(4) if there are more than one type;
(6) Subtracting the results of section 12(b)(4) from the results of section 12(b)(2) if there is only one type or subtracting the results of section 12(b)(5) from the result of section 12(b)(3) if there are more than one type; and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(6) by your share.

# Example for Section 12(b)
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of snap type processing beans in the unit, with a guarantee of 3.0 tons per acre and a price election of $210.00 per ton. You are only able
to harvest 200 tons. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 3.0 tons = 300 tons guarantee;
(2) 300 tons × $210.00 price election = $63,000.00 value of guarantee;
(3) 200 tons × $210.00 price election = $42,000.00 value of production to count;
(4) $63,000.00−$42,000.00 = $21,000.00 loss; and
(5) $21,000.00 × 100 percent = $21,000.00 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of lima type processing beans in the same unit, with a guarantee of 1.0 ton per acre and a price election of $525.00 per ton. You are only able to harvest 75 tons. Your total indemnity for both snap and lima types processing beans would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 3.0 tons = 300 tons guarantee for the snap type, and 100 acres × 1.0 ton = 100 tons guarantee for the lima type;
(2) 300 tons × $210.00 price election = $63,000.00 value of guarantee for the snap type, and 100 tons × $525.00 price election = $52,500.00 value of guarantee for the lima type;
(3) $63,000.00 + $52,500.00 = $115,500.00 total value of guarantee;
(4) 200 tons × $210.00 price election = $42,000.00 value of production to count for the snap type, and 75 tons × $525.00 price election = $39,375.00 value of production to count for the lima type;
(5) $42,000.00 + $39,375.00 = $81,375.00 total value of production to count;
(6) $115,500.00−$81,375.00 = $33,625.00 loss; and
(7) $33,625.00 loss × 100 percent = $33,625.00 indemnity payment.
End of Example.
(c) The total production to count, specified in tons, from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us.
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes.
(iii) Production on acreage that is bypassed unless the acreage was bypassed due to an insured cause of loss which resulted in production which would not be acceptable under the terms of the processor contract.
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested.
(2) All harvested processing bean production from the insurable acreage. The amount of such production will be:
(i) The usable tons of processing beans shown on the processor settlement sheet, if available; or
(ii) Determined by dividing the dollar amount paid, payable, or which should have been paid under the terms of the processor contract for the quality and quantity of beans to be delivered to the processor by the base contract price per ton; and
(3) All harvested processing bean production from any other insurable units that have been used to fulfill your processor contract for this unit.

# 13. Late Planting
A late planting period is not applicable to processing beans unless allowed by the Special Provisions and you provide written approval from the processor by the acreage reporting date that it will accept the production from the late planted acres when it is expected to be ready for harvest.

# 14. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 58625, Oct. 30, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65176, Dec. 10, 1997; 76 FR 4805, Jan. 27, 2011; 81 FR 84400, Nov. 23, 2016; 89 FR 53844, June 27, 2024]
§§ 457.156-457.157
[Reserved]
§ 457.158
Apple crop insurance provisions.
The apple crop insurance provisions for the 2011 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Apple Crop Insurance Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Apple production.
All fresh apple production and processing apple production from insurable acreage.
Area A.
A geographic area that includes Montana, Wyoming, Utah, New Mexico and all states west thereof.
Area B.
A geographic area that includes all states not included in Area A, except Colorado.
Area C.
Colorado.
Bin.
A container that contains a minimum of 875 pounds of apples or another quantity as designated in the Special Provisions.
Box.
A container that contains 35 pounds of apples or another quantity as designated in the Special Provisions.
Bushel.
In all states except Colorado, 42 pounds of apples. In Colorado, 40 pounds of apples.
Damaged apple production.
(1) With respect to losses calculated under section 12 only, the percentage of fresh or processing apple production that fails to grade U.S. No. 1 Processing or better in accordance with the grade standards due to an insurable cause of loss; or
(2) With respect to losses calculated under section 14, the percentage of fresh apple production that fails to grade U.S. Fancy or better in accordance with the grade standards due to an insurable cause of loss.
Direct marketing.
Sale of the insured crop directly to consumers without the intervention of an intermediary such as a wholesaler, retailer, packer, processor, shipper, buyer, or broker. Examples of direct marketing include selling through an on-farm or roadside stand, or a farmer's market, and permitting the general public to enter the field for the purpose of picking all or a portion of the crop.
Fresh apple production.
(1) Apples:
(i) That are sold, or could be sold, for human consumption without undergoing any change in the basic form, such as peeling, juicing, crushing, etc.;
(ii) From acreage that is designated as fresh apples on the acreage report;
(iii) That follow the recommended cultural practices generally in use for fresh apple acreage in the area in a manner generally recognized by agricultural experts; and
(iv) From acreage that you certify, and, if requested by us provide verifiable records to support, that at least 50 percent of the production from acreage reported as fresh apple acreage from each unit, was sold as fresh apples in one or more of the four most recent crop years.
(2) Acreage with production not meeting all the requirements above must be designated on the acreage report as processing apple production.
Grade standards.
The United States Standards for Grades of Apples, the United States Standards for Grades of Apples for Processing, or such other standards contained in the Special Provisions.
Harvest.
The picking of mature apples from the trees or collecting of mature apples from the ground. Apples collected from the ground that cannot be sold for human consumption will not be considered harvested.
Marketable.
Apple production that is not damaged apple production.
Mature.
Apples defined as “mature” under the applicable grade standards.
Pounds.
Sixteen (16) ounces avoirdupois.
Processing apple production.
Apples from insurable acreage failing to meet the insurability requirements for fresh apple production that are:
(1) Sold, or could be sold for the purpose of undergoing a change to the basic structure such as peeling, juicing, crushing, etc.; or
(2) From acreage designated as processing apples on the acreage report.
Production guarantee (per acre).
The quantity of apples in boxes or bushels determined by multiplying the approved APH yield per acre by the coverage level percentage you elect. If the production of apples has been measured in bins, the amount must be converted to boxes or bushels.
Russeting.
A defect on the surface of the apple as described in the grade standards.
Sunburn.
A defect as described in the grade standards.
Type.
A category of apples as designated in the Special Provisions.

# 2. Unit Division
In addition to the requirements of section 34(b) of the Basic Provisions, optional units may be established if each optional unit is:
(a) Located on non-contiguous land; or
(b) By type as specified in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one coverage level for all fresh apple acreage and only one coverage level for all processing apple acreage. For example, if you choose the 55 percent coverage level for all your fresh apple acreage (
i.e.,
fresh, varietal group types), you may choose the 75 percent coverage level for all your processing apple acreage. However, if you elect the Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) level of insurance for fresh apple acreage or processing apple acreage, the CAT level of coverage will be applicable to all insured apple acreage in the county. If you only have fresh apple acreage designated on your acreage report and processing apple acreage is added after the sales closing date, we will assign a coverage level equal to the coverage level you selected for your fresh apple acreage. If you only have processing apple acreage designated on your acreage report and fresh apple acreage is added after the sales closing date, we will assign a coverage level equal to the coverage level you selected for your processing apple acreage.
(b) You may select only one price election for all the apples in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each apple type designated in the Special Provisions. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(c) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type, if applicable:
(1) Any event or action that could impact the yield potential of the insured crop including interplanted perennial crop, removal of trees, any damage, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees and the planting pattern; and
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage has changed:
(i) The age and type of the interplanted crop, if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(d) We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any situation listed in sections 3(c)(1) through (c)(4). If the situation occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period, the yield used to establish your production guarantee will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the situation was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee at any time we become aware of the circumstance;
(2) Or may occur after the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the yield used to establish your production guarantee will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the yield used to establish your production guarantee is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Or may occur after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, production lost due to uninsured causes equal to the amount of the reduction in the yield used to establish your production guarantee will be applied in determining any indemnity (
see
section 12(c)(1)(ii)). We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee for the subsequent crop year.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is October 31 preceding the cancellation date for California and August 31 preceding the cancellation date for all other states.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
(a) In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are January 31 in California and November 20 in all other states.
(b) If, in accordance with the terms of the policy, your apple policy is canceled or terminated by us for any crop year after insurance attached for that crop year, but on or before the cancellation and termination dates, whichever is later, insurance will be considered not to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.
(c) We may not cancel your policy when an insured cause of loss has occurred after insurance attached, but prior to the cancellation date. However, your policy can be terminated if a cause for termination contained in sections 2 or 27 of the Basic Provisions exists.

# 6. Report of Acreage.
In addition to the requirements contained in section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must report and designate all acreage by type by the acreage reporting date. Any acreage not qualifying for fresh apple production is not eligible for the Optional Coverage for Fresh Fruit Quality Adjustment option contained in section 14 of these Crop Provisions. If you designate fresh apple acreage on the acreage report, you are certifying at least 50 percent of the production from acreage reported as fresh apple acreage, by unit, was sold as fresh apples in one or more of the four most recent crop years in accordance with the definition of “fresh apple production” and that you have the records to support such production.

# 7. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all apples in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial table:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown on tree varieties that are adapted to the area and have, in at least one of the previous four years, produced:
(1) 10 bins of apples per acre in Area A;
(2) 150 bushels of apples per acre in Area B; or
(3) 200 bushels of apples per acre in Area C;
(c) That are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us; and
(d) That are grown for:
(1) Fresh apple production; or
(2) Processing apple production.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance from attaching to a crop planted with another crop, apples interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements contained in your policy.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) For the year of application, coverage begins on February 1 of the calendar year the insured crop normally blooms in California and November 21 of the calendar year prior to the calendar year the insured crop normally blooms in all other States. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if your application is received by us after January 12 but prior to February 1 in California, or after November 1 but prior to November 21 in all other States, insurance will attach on the 20th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 20-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the apple acreage.
(2) For each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring an existing policy to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(3) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is November 5, or such other date as specified in the Special Provisions.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions in this section, coverage will not be considered to have begun for a crop year if the policy is canceled or terminated in accordance with section 5(b).
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period. There will be no coverage of any insurable interest acquired after the acreage reporting date.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of apples on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.
(3) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of apples after the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance coverage will be provided for any loss due to an insurable cause of loss that occurred prior to the date that you relinquished your insurable share and the whole premium will be due for such acreage for that crop year.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period and result in damaged apple production:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Volcanic eruption;
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured peril that occurs during the insurance period;
(8) Wildlife; and
(9) All other natural causes of loss that cannot be prevented, including, but not limited to, hail, wind, excess sun causing sunburn, and frost and freeze causing russeting.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to your inability to market the apples for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must leave representative samples in accordance with our procedures.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(1) You must notify us at least 3 days prior to the date harvest should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(2) You must notify us at least 15 days before any production from any unit will be sold by direct marketing. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be sold by direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count of not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(3) If you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must notify us at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest, or immediately if damage is discovered during harvest. You must not sell or dispose of the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so. If you fail to meet the requirements of this section and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim on any unit by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee, by type as applicable;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 12(b)(1) by the respective price election and by the percent of price election;
(3) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(2) if there are more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the total production to count (see section 12(c)), for each type as applicable, by the respective price election and by the percent of price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 12(b)(4), if there are more than one type;
(6) Subtracting the total in section 12(b)(5) from the total in section 12(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 12(b)(6) by your share.
Basic Coverage Example:
You have a 100 percent share in one basic unit with 10 acres of fresh apples and 5 acres of processing apples designated on your acreage report, with a 600 bushel per acre production guarantee for both fresh and processing apples, and you select 100 percent of the price election on a price election of $9.10 per bushel for fresh apples and $2.50 per bushel for processing apples. You harvest 5,000 bushels of fresh apples and 1,000 bushels of processing apples, all grading U.S. No. 1 Processing or better. Your indemnity will be calculated as follows:
A. 10 acres × 600 bushels = 6,000-bushel production guarantee of fresh apples;
5 acres × 600 bushels = 3,000-bushel production guarantee of processing apples;
B. 6,000-bushel production guarantee × $9.10 price election × 100 percent of price election = $54,600 value of production guarantee for fresh apples;
3,000-bushel production guarantee × $2.50 price election × 100 percent of price election = $7,500 value of production guarantee for processing apples;
C. $54,600 value of production guarantee for fresh apples + $7,500 value of production
guarantee for processing apples = $62,100.00 total value of the production guarantee;
D. 5,000 bushels of fresh apple production to count × $9.10 price election × 100 percent of price election = $45,500 value of fresh apple production to count;
1,000 bushels of processing apple production to count × $2.50 price election × 100 percent of price election = $2,500 value of processing apple production to count;
E. $45,500 value of fresh apple production to count + $2,500 value of processing apple production to count = $48,000 total value of production to count;
F. $62,100 total value of the production guarantee − $48,000 total value of production to count = $14,100.00 value of loss; and
G. $14,100 value of loss × 100 percent share = $14,100 indemnity payment.

# [End of Example]
(c) The total production to count (in boxes or bushels) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 11;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested apple production that would be marketable if harvested; and
(iv) Potential marketable apple production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested marketable production from the insurable acreage.
(d) Any apple production not graded or appraised prior to the earlier of the time apples are placed in storage or the date the apples are delivered to a packer, processor, or other handler will not be considered damaged apple production and will be considered production to count.

# 13. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 14. Optional Coverage for Fresh Fruit Quality Adjustment
(a) In the event of a conflict between the Apple Crop Insurance Provisions and this option, this option will control. Insureds who select this option cannot receive less than the indemnity due under section 12.
(b) In return for payment of the additional premium designated in the actuarial documents, this option provides for quality adjustment of fresh apple production as follows:
(1) To be eligible for this option, you must have elected to insure your apples at the additional coverage level. If you elect Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) after this option is effective, it will be considered as notice of cancellation of this option by you.
(2) You must elect this option on or before the sales closing date for the initial crop year for which you wish to insure your apples under this option. This option will continue in effect until canceled by either you or us for any succeeding crop year by written notice to the other party on or before the cancellation date.
(3) This option will apply to all your apple acreage designated in your acreage report as grown for fresh apple production and that meets the insurability requirements specified in the Apple Crop Insurance Provisions, except any acreage specifically excluded by the actuarial documents. Any acreage designated in your acreage report as grown for processing apple production is not eligible for coverage under this option.
(4) In lieu of sections 12(c)(1)(iii), (iv) and (2), the production to count will include all appraised and harvested production from all of the fresh apple acreage in the unit, adjusted in accordance with this option.
(5) If appraised or harvested fresh apple production for the block or unit, as applicable, is damaged to the extent that more than 20 percent of the apple production does not grade U.S. Fancy or better the following adjustments to the production to count will apply:
(i) Fresh apple production to count with 21 percent through 40 percent damaged apple production will be reduced 2 percent for each full one percent in excess of 20 percent.
(ii) Fresh apple production to count with 41 percent through 50 percent damaged apple production will be reduced 40 percent plus an additional 3 percent for each full one percent in excess of 40 percent.
(iii) Fresh apple production to count with 51 percent through 64 percent damaged apple production will be reduced 70 percent plus an additional 2 percent for each full one percent in excess of 50 percent.
(iv) Fresh apple production to count with 65 percent or more damaged apple production will not be considered production to count.
(v) Notwithstanding sections 14(b)(5)(i) through (iv), if you sell any of your fresh apple production as U.S. Fancy or better, all such sold production will be included as production to count under this option.
(c) Any apple production not graded or appraised prior to the earlier of the time apples are placed in storage or the date the apples are delivered to a packer, processor, or other handler will not be considered damaged apple production and will be considered production to count under this option.
(d) Any adjustments that reduce your production to count under this option will not be applicable when determining production to count for APH purposes.

# Optional Coverage for Fresh Fruit Quality Adjustment Example:
You have a 100 percent share in 10 acres of fresh apples designated on your acreage report, with a 600 bushel per acre guarantee, and you select 100 percent of the price election on a price election of $9.10 per bushel. You harvest 5,000 bushels of apples from your designated fresh apple acreage, but only 2,650 of those bushels grade U.S. Fancy or better. Assuming you do not sell any of your fresh apple production as U.S. Fancy or better, your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
A. 10 acres × 600 bushels per acre = 6,000-bushel production guarantee of fresh apples;
B. 6,000-bushel production guarantee of fresh apples × $9.10 price election × 100 percent of price election = $54,600 value of production guarantee for fresh apple acreage;
C. The value of the fresh apple production to count is determined as follows:
i. 5,000 bushels harvested − 2,650 bushels that graded U.S. Fancy or better = 2,350 bushels of fresh apple production not grading U.S. Fancy or better;
ii. 2,350/5,000 = 47 percent of fresh apple production not grading U.S. Fancy or better;
iii. In accordance with section 14(b)(5)(ii): 47 percent − 40 percent = 7 percent in excess of 40 percent;
iv. 7 percent × 3 = 21 percent;
v. 40 percent + 21 percent = 61 percent;
vi. 5,000 bushels harvested × .61 (61 percent) = 3,050 bushels of fresh apple production not grading U.S. Fancy or better;
vii. 5,000 bushels harvested − 3,050 bushels of fresh apple production not grading U.S. Fancy or better = 1,950 bushels of adjusted fresh apple production to count;
viii. 1,950 bushels of adjusted fresh apples production to count × $9.10 price election × 100 percent of price election = $17,745 value of fresh apple production to count;
D. $54,600 value of production guarantee for fresh apples − $17,745 value of fresh apple production to count = $36,855 value of loss;
E. $36,855 value of loss × 100 percent share = $36,855 indemnity payment.

# [End of Example]
[63 FR 17054, Apr. 8, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 47839, Aug. 4, 2000; 69 FR 52591, Aug. 27, 2004; 69 FR 53500, Sept. 1, 2004; 69 FR 62803, Oct. 28, 2004; 75 FR 52231, Aug. 25, 2010]
§ 457.159
Stonefruit crop insurance provisions.
The Stonefruit Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Stonefruit Crop Insurance Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Grade standards.
The United States Standards for Grades of Peaches, the United States Standards for Grades of Nectarines, the United States Standards for Grades of Apricots, and the United States Standards for Grades of Fresh Plums and Prunes, or other such standards specified in the Special Provisions.
Graft.
To unite a shoot or bud with a rootstock in accordance with recommended practices to form a living union.
Harvest.
The physical removal of mature stonefruit from the tree either by hand or machine.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Lug.
A container of fresh stonefruit of specified weight. Lugs of varying sizes will be converted to standard lug equivalents on the basis of the following average net pounds of packed fruit, or as specified in the Special Provisions:
Crop
Pounds per lug
Fresh Apricots
24
Fresh Nectarines
25
Fresh Freestone Peaches
25
Fresh Plums
28
Weight for Processing Apricots, Processing Cling Peaches, and Processing Freestone Peaches is specified in tons.
Marketable.
Stonefruit production that meets or exceeds the quality standards for U.S. No. 1 in accordance with the applicable grade standards or other standards as specified in the Special Provisions, or if stonefruit production fails to meet the applicable grade standards, stonefruit production that is accepted by a packer, processor or other handler.
Processor.
A business enterprise regularly engaged in processing fruit for human consumption that possesses all licenses and permits for processing fruit required by the state in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process contracted fruit within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Stonefruit.
Any of the following crops grown for fresh market or processing:
(a) Fresh Apricots;
(b) Fresh Freestone Peaches;
(c) Fresh Nectarines;
(d) Fresh Plums;
(e) Processing Apricots;
(f) Processing Cling Peaches;
(g) Processing Freestone Peaches; and
(h) Other crops listed in the Special Provisions.
Ton.
Two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.
Type.
A category of a stonefruit crop with similar characteristics that are grouped for insurance purposes, as listed in the Special Provisions.

# 2. Unit Division
In lieu of the provisions of section 34 of the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices, optional units will only be allowed as stated herein or by written agreement.
(a)
Optional Units on Acreage Located on Non-contiguous Land:
Optional units may be established if each optional unit is located on non-contiguous land.
(b) Optional Units by Type: Optional units may be established by type if allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election and coverage level for each crop grown in the county and listed in the Special Provisions that is insured under this policy. If separate price elections are available by type of a crop, the price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type of cling peach, you must choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types of cling peaches.
(b) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type, if applicable, for each stonefruit crop:
(1) Any damage, removal of trees, change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees and the planting pattern; and
(4) For the first year of insurance for acreage interplanted with another perennial crop, and any time the planting pattern of such acreage is changed:
(i) The age of the interplanted crop, and type if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information that we request in order to establish your approved yield.
(c) We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any situation listed in sections 3(b)(1) through (b)(4). If the situation occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period, the yield used to establish your production guarantee will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the situation was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee at any time we become aware of the circumstance;
(2) Or may occur after the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the yield used to establish your production guarantee will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the yield used to establish your production guarantee is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Or may occur after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, production lost due to uninsured causes equal to the amount of the reduction in yield used to establish your production guarantee will be applied in determining any indemnity (see section 11(c)(1)(ii)). We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee for the subsequent crop year.
(d) You may not increase your elected or assigned coverage level or the ratio of your price election to the maximum price election we offer if a cause of loss that could or would reduce the yield of the insured crop is evident prior to the time that you request the increase.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is October 31 for California and August 31 preceding the cancellation date for all other states, or as specified in the Special Provisions.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are January 31 for California and November 20 for all other states, or as specified in the Special Provisions.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all acreage of each stonefruit crop you elect to insure, that is grown in the county, and for which premium rates are provided in the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That is grown on trees that:
(1) Were commercially available when the trees were set out or have subsequently become commercially available;
(2) Are adapted to the area;
(3) Are grown on root stock that is adapted to the area;
(4) Are in compliance with the applicable State's Tree Fruit Agreement or related crop advisory board for the state (for each insured crop and type), when such regulations exist;
(5) Have produced at least 200 lugs of fresh market production per acre, or at least 2.2 tons per acre for processing crops, in at least one of the four most recent actual production history crop years, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions;
(6) Have reached at least the fifth leaf year, including the fifth leaf year after grafting if grafting occurs after set out, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions; and
(7) Are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, stonefruit interplanted with another perennial crop is insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine that it does not meet the requirements for insurability contained in your policy.

# 8. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) Coverage begins on February 1 in California and November 21 for all other states of each crop year, except that for the year of application, if your application is received after January 22 but prior to February 1 in California or after November 11 but prior to November 21 in all other states, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 10 day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the orchard.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period for each crop year is:
(i) July 31 for all apricots; and
(ii) September 30 for all nectarines and peaches;
(iii) In all states except California, September 30 for all fresh plums;
(iv) In California only, October 20 for all fresh plums; or
(v) As otherwise provided for specific counties or types in the Special Provisions.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date of acquisition.
(2) If you lose or relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of stonefruit on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year and if the acreage was insured by you the previous crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.
(c) For each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(d) If your stonefruit policy is canceled or terminated for any crop year, in accordance with the terms of the policy, after insurance attached for that crop year but on or before the cancellation and termination dates, whichever is the later, insurance will not be considered to have attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Wildlife;
(4) Earthquake;
(5) Volcanic eruption; or
(6) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss contained in sections 9(a)(1) through (5) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded by section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Disease or insect infestation, unless adverse weather:
(i) Prevents the proper application of control measures or causes properly applied control measures to be ineffective; or
(ii) Causes disease or insect infestation for which no effective control mechanism is available;
(2) Split pits regardless of cause; or
(3) Inability to market the insured crop for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause of loss specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(a) You must notify us within 3 days after the date harvest should have started if the insured crop will not be harvested.
(b) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count of not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(c) In addition to section 14 of the Basic Provisions, if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must give us notice at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest. You must not destroy the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so. If you fail to notify us and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, we may consider all such production to be undamaged and include it as production to count.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election for the type and by the percent of the price election;
(3) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(2) (if there is only one type, the result of (3) will be the same as the result of (2));
(4) Multiplying the total production to count (see section 11(c)), for each type, by the respective price election and by the percent of the price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result of section 11(b)(5) from the result of section 11(b)(3) (if there is only one type, the result of (6) will be the same as the result of (5)); and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 11(b)(6) by your share.
Scenario 1:
You select 75 percent coverage level and 100 percent of the price election on 50.0 acres of Type A stonefruit with 100 percent share in the unit. The approved yield is 500.0 lugs per acre and the price election is $6.00 per lug. You harvest 5,000 lugs. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50.0 acres × 500.0 lugs × 0.75 = 18,750-lug production guarantee;
(2) 18,750 lugs × $6.00 price election × 100 percent of the price election = $112,500 value of production guarantee;
(4) 5,000 harvested lugs × $6.00 price election × 100 percent of the price election = $30,000 value of production to count;
(6) $112,500 − $30,000 = $82,500 loss; and
(7) $82,500 × 1.000 share = $82,500 indemnity payment.
Scenario 2:
In addition to the above information in Scenario 1, you have an additional 50.0 acres of Type B stonefruit with 100 percent share in the unit. The approved yield is 300.0 lugs
per acre and the price election is $4.00 per lug. You harvest 3,000 lugs. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50.0 acres × 500.0 lugs × 0.75 Type A = 18,750-lug guarantee; and 50.0 acres × 300.0 lugs × 0.75 Type B = 11,250-lug guarantee;
(2) 18,750 lugs × $6.00 price election × 100 percent of the price election = $112,500 value of guarantee for Type A; and 11,250 lugs × $4.00 price election × 100 percent of the price election = $45,000 value of guarantee for Type B;
(3) $112,500 + $45,000 = $157,500 total value of production guarantee;
(4) 5,000 harvested lugs Type A × $6.00 price election × 100 percent of the price election = $30,000 value of production to count; and 3,000 harvested lugs Type B × $4.00 price election × 100 percent of the price election = $12,000 value of production to count;
(5) $30,000 + $12,000 = $42,000 total value of production to count;
(6) $157,500 − $42,000 = $115,500 total loss; and
(7) $115,500 loss × 1.000 share = $115,500 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production to count (in lugs or tons) from all insurable acres on a unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 10;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production that would be marketable if harvested; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the insured crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us if any further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop. If you harvest the crop we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(3) The quantity of harvested production will be reduced if the following conditions apply:
(i) The value of the damaged production is less than 75 percent of the marketable value of undamaged production due to an insured cause of loss; and
(ii) For stonefruit insured as fresh fruit only, the stonefruit either is packed and sold as fresh fruit and meets only the utility grade requirements of the applicable grade standards, or fails to meet the applicable grade standards but is or could be sold for any use other than fresh packed stonefruit.
(4) Harvested fresh or processing stonefruit production that is eligible for quality adjustment as specified in section 11(c)(3) will be reduced as follows:
(i) When packed and sold as fresh fruit or when insured as a processing crop, by dividing the value per lug or ton of marketable production by the highest price election for the same type and multiplying the result (not to exceed 1.00) by the quantity of such production; or
(ii) For all other fresh stonefruit, by multiplying the number of tons that could be marketed by the value per ton and dividing that result by the highest price election available for the same type.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions (§ 457.8) are not applicable.
[63 FR 29935, June 2, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 47840, Aug. 4, 2000; 75 FR 44717, July 29, 2010; 87 FR 38897, June 30, 2022]
§ 457.160
Processing tomato crop insurance provisions.
The Processing Tomato Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2005 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured polices:

# Processing Tomato Crop Provisions
If a conflict exists among the policy provisions, the order of priority is as follows: (1) The Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, if applicable; (2) the Special Provisions; (3) these Crop Provisions; and (4) the Basic Provisions with (1) controlling (2), etc.

# 1. Definitions
Acre.
43,560 square feet of land on which row widths do not exceed 6 feet, or the land on which at least 7,260 linear feet rows are planted if row widths exceed 6 feet.
Broker.
An enterprise in the business of buying and selling tomatoes possessing all the licenses and permits required by the state in which it operates, and that has a written contract with a processor to purchase processing tomatoes on behalf of the processor and to deliver such tomatoes to the processor.
Bypassed acreage.
Land on which production is ready for harvest but the processor elects not to accept such production so it is not harvested.
First fruit set.
The reproductive stage of the plant at which 30 percent of the plants have produced a fruit that has reached a minimum of one inch in diameter.
Good Farming Practices.
In addition to the definition of “good farming practices” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, good farming practices include the cultural practices required under the processor contract.
Harvest.
The severance of tomatoes from the vines.
Plant stand.
The number of plants per acre considered to be normal for the applicable tomato variety and growing area.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, tomatoes must initially be placed in rows to be considered planted. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition of “Practical to replant” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors, including but not limited to moisture availability, marketing window, condition of the field, and time to crop maturity, that replanting the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant unless the replanted acreage can produce at least 75% of the approved yield, and the processor agrees in writing that it will accept the production from the replanted acreage.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in processing tomatoes for human consumption, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing tomatoes required by the state in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process contracted processing tomatoes within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
A written agreement between the producer and a processor, or between the producer and a broker, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow processing tomatoes, and to deliver the tomato production to the processor or broker;
(b) The processor's, or broker's, commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processor contract; and
(c) A price per ton that will be paid for the production.
Ton.
Two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section or any unit division provisions contained in the Basic Provisions, no indemnity will be paid for any loss of production on any unit if the insured produced a crop sufficient to fulfill the processor contracts forming the basis for the guarantee, and any indemnity will be limited to the amount necessary to compensate for loss in yield at the price elected between production to count and the contract requirements.
(b) In California only, in addition to, or instead of, establishing optional units by section, section equivalent or FSA farm serial number and by irrigated and non-irrigated acreage as provided in the unit division provisions contained in the Basic Provisions, optional units may be established if acreage planted to tomatoes is separated by a field that is not planted to tomatoes, or by a permanent boundary such as a permanent waterway, fence, public road or woodland. Such optional unit must consist of the minimum number of acres stated in the Special Provisions. Acreage planted to tomatoes that is less than the minimum number of acres required will attach to the closest unit within the section, section equivalent, or FSA farm serial number.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the processing tomatoes in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions provide different price elections by type. The percentage of the maximum price election you choose for one type will be applicable to all other types insured under this policy. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) Liability under this policy will not exceed the number of tons required to be accepted by the processor under a processor contract in effect on or before:
(1) The earlier of August 20 or the date of damage to the insured crop in all counties with an acreage reporting date of July 15; or
(2) The earlier of the acreage reporting date or the date of damage in all other counties. (Exclude indemnities that occur in stage one and replant payments.)
(c) The price election used to determine the amount of an indemnity is progressive by stage and increases, at specified intervals, to the price used for final stage losses. Stages will be determined on an acre basis. The stages and applicable price elections are:
(1) First stage is from planting until first fruit set. If any acreage of the insured crop is destroyed in this stage, the price used to establish the amount of any indemnity owed for such acreage will be 50 percent of your price election;
(2) Second stage is from the first fruit set until harvest. If any acreage of the insured crop is destroyed in this stage, the price used to establish the amount of any indemnity owed for such acreage will be 80 percent of your price election; and
(3) Third stage (final stage) is harvested acreage. The price election used in this stage to establish the amount of any indemnity owed will be 100 percent of your price election.
(d) Any acreage of tomatoes damaged to the extent, that the majority of producers in the area would not normally further care for the tomatoes, will be deemed to have been destroyed even though you may continue to care for it. The price election used to determine the amount of an indemnity will be that applicable to the stage in which the tomatoes were destroyed.
(e) The appraised production from bypassed acreage that could have been accepted by the processor will be included when determining your approved yield.
(f) Acreage that is bypassed because it was damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the processor cannot use the product will be considered to have a zero yield when determining your approved yield.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date for California and November 30 preceding the cancellation date for all other states.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are January 15 in California and March 15 in all other states.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of all processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date in all counties, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.

# 7. Annual Premium
In lieu of the premium amount determinations contained in section 7 of the Basic Provisions, the annual premium amount per acre is determined by multiplying the production guarantee per acre by the price election for the third (final) stage; by the premium rate; by the insured acreage; by the applicable share at the time of planting; and ultimately by any applicable premium adjustment factors contained in the actuarial documents.

# 8. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the tomatoes in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are planted for harvest as processing tomatoes;
(3) That are grown under, and in accordance with, the requirements of a processor contract executed on or before August 20 in all counties with an acreage reporting date of July 15, or on or before the acreage reporting date in all other counties, and are not excluded from the processor contract for or during the crop year; and
(4) That are not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(i) Grown on acreage on which tomatoes were grown in either of the two previous years, except in California;
(ii) Interplanted with another crop; or
(iii) Planted into an established grass or legume.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the processor contract, you retain control of the acreage on which the tomatoes are grown, you are at risk of loss, and the processor contract provides for delivery of processing tomatoes under specified conditions and at a stipulated price.
(c) A tomato producer who is also a processor or broker may establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The processor or broker, as applicable, must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors or officers of the processor or the broker must execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as an acceptable processor contract. (Such resolution will be considered a processor contract under this policy); and
(3) As applicable, our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of a processor contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Any acreage of the insured crop that is damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant; and
(b) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements, if applicable, contained in the Special Provisions.

# 10. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions contained in section 11 of the Basic Provisions, regarding the end of the insurance period, insurance ceases at the earlier of the date:
(a) You harvest sufficient production to fulfill your processor contract if the processor contract stipulates a specific amount of production to be delivered;
(b) The tomatoes should have been harvested but was not harvested;
(c) The tomatoes were abandoned;
(d) Harvest was completed;
(e) Final adjustment of a loss was completed; or
(f) The following calendar date for the end of the insurance period
(1) October 20 in California; and
(2) October 10 in all other states.

# 11. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions, including:
(i) Excessive moisture that prevents the harvesting equipment from entering the field or that prevents the timely operation of harvesting equipment; and
(ii) Abnormally hot or cold temperatures that cause an unexpected number of acres over a large producing area to be ready for harvest at the same time, affecting the timely harvest of a large number of such acres or the processing of such production being beyond the capacity of the processor, either of which causes the acreage to be bypassed;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if due to a cause of loss contained in sections 11(a)(1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded by section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any loss of production due to:
(1) Acreage being bypassed, if the acreage is bypassed because:
(i) The breakdown or non-operation of equipment or facilities; or
(ii) The availability of a crop insurance payment. We may deny any indemnity immediately in such circumstance or, if an indemnity has been paid, require you to repay it to us with interest at any time acreage was bypassed due to the availability of a crop insurance payment;
(2) The processing tomatoes not being timely harvested, unless such delay in harvesting is solely and directly due to an insured cause of loss; or
(3) Your failure to follow the requirements contained in the processor contract.

# 12. Replanting Payment
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if the crop sustained a loss exceeding 50 percent of the plant stand and it is practical to replant.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be determined as follows:
(1) The amount shown on the Special Provisions multiplied by your share; or
(2) If an amount is not contained in the Special Provisions, the lesser of 20 percent of the production guarantee or three tons, multiplied by your third stage (final) price election, multiplied by your share; and
(3) In no event will the replanting payment per acre exceed your actual cost of replanting.

# 13. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the notice required by section 14 of the Basic Provisions, you must give us notice:
(a) Not later than 48 hours after:
(1) Total destruction of the tomatoes in the unit; or
(2) Discontinuance of harvest on a unit on which unharvested production remains;
(b) Within 3 days after the date harvest should have started on any acreage that will not be harvested. You must also provide acceptable documentation of the reason the acreage was bypassed. Failure to provide such documentation will result in our determination that the acreage was bypassed due to an uninsured cause of loss. If the crop will not be harvested and you wish to destroy the crop, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop for our inspection. The samples must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in
the unit. The samples must not be destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after notice is given to us; and
(c) At least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, or immediately if damage is discovered during the 15 day period or during harvest, so that we may inspect the damaged production. If you fail to notify us and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, we will consider all such production to be undamaged and include it as production to count. You are not required to delay harvest.

# 14. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee, by type if applicable;
(2) Multiplying each result of section 14(b)(1) by the respective price election, by type if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 14(b)(2) if there are more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the total production to counted (see section 14(c)), for each type if applicable, by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 14(b)(4) if there are more than one type;
(6) Subtracting the result of section 14(b)(4) from the result of section 14(b)(2) if there is only one type or subtracting the result of section 14(b)(5) from the result of section 14(b)(3) if there are more than one type; and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 14(b)(6) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 50 acres of type A processing tomatoes in the unit, with a guarantee of 18.8 tons per acre and a price election of $50.00 per ton. You are only able to harvest 10.0 tons. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50.0 acres × 18.8 tons = 940.0 tons guarantee;
(2) 940.0 tons × $50.00 price election = $47,000.00 value guarantee;
(4) 10.0 tons × $50.00 price election = $500.00 value of production to count;
(6) $47,000.00 − $500.00 = $46,500.00 loss; and
(7) $46,500 × 100 percent = $46,500.00 indemnity payment.
You also have a 100 percent share in 50 acres of type B processing tomatoes in the same unit, with a guarantee of 15.0 tons per acre and a price election of $35.00 per ton. You are only able to harvest 5.0 tons. Your total indemnity for both types A and B would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50.0 acres × 18.8 tons = 940.0 ton guarantee for type A and 50.0 acres × 15.0 tons = 750.0 ton guarantee for type B;
(2) 940.0 ton guarantee × $50.00 price election = $47,000.00 value of guarantee for type A and 750.0 ton guarantee × $35.00 = $26,500.00 value of guarantee for type B;
(3) $47,000.00 + $26,500.00 = $72,500.00 total value of guarantee;
(4) 10.0 tons × $50.00 price election = $500.00 value of production to count for type A and 5.0 tons × $35.00 price election = $175.00 value of production to count for type B;
(5) $500.00 + $175.00 = $675.00 total value of production to count;
(6) $72,500.00 − $675.00 = $71,575.00 loss; and
(7) $71,575 loss × 100 percent = $71,575.00 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production to count, specified in tons, from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us.
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Production on acreage that is bypassed unless the acreage was bypassed due to an insured cause of loss which resulted in production which would not be acceptable under the terms of the processor contract;
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandoned, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us, (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested;
(2) All harvested production (in tons) delivered to the processor which meets the quality requirements of the processor contract (expressed as usable or payable weight).
(3) All harvested tomato production delivered to processor which does not meet the quality requirements of the processor contract due to not being timely delivered.
(d) Once harvest has begun on any acreage covered by a processor contract that specifies the number of tons to be delivered, the total indemnity payable will be limited to an amount based on the lesser of the guaranteed tons, or the tons remaining unfulfilled under the processor contract.

# 15. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[62 FR 54342, Oct. 20, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65177, Dec. 10, 1997; 69 FR 44576, July 27, 2004]
§ 457.161
Canola and rapeseed crop insurance provisions.
The Canola and Rapeseed Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Canola and Rapeseed Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Canola and Rapeseed Crop Provisions and corresponding Commodity Exchange Price Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Canola.
A crop of the genus
Brassica
as defined in accordance with the Official United States Standards for Grain—Subpart C—U.S. Standards for Canola.
Harvest.
Combining or threshing for seed. A crop that is swathed or pushed prior to combining is not considered harvested.
Latest final planting date.
(a) The final planting date for spring-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate a final planting date for spring-planted acreage only;
(b) The final planting date for fall-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate a final planting date for fall-planted acreage only; or
(c) The final planting date for spring-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate final planting dates for both spring-planted and fall-planted acreage.
Local market price (Canola).
The cash price per pound for U.S. No. 2 grade canola that reflects the maximum limits of quality deficiencies allowable for the U.S. No. 2 grade canola.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, land on which seed is initially spread onto the soil surface by any method and subsequently is mechanically incorporated into the soil in a timely manner and at the proper depth will be considered planted. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Prevented planting.
As defined in the Basic Provisions, except that the references to “final planting date” contained in the definition in the Basic Provisions are replaced with the “latest final planting date.”
Price of damaged production.
The cash price per pound available if the production were sold for canola that qualifies for quality adjustment in accordance with section 12 of these crop provisions.
Pushed.
Mechanical bending of the stem prior to maturity that leaves the stems and pods intact to ripen naturally while being protected from weather events.
Rapeseed.
A crop of the genus
Brassica
that contains at least 30 percent of an industrial type of oil as shown on the Special Provisions and that is measured on a basis free from foreign material.
Swathed.
Severance of the stem and seed pods from the ground and placing into windrows without removal of the seed from the pod.

# 2. Unit Division
In addition to section 34(c) of the Basic Provisions, optional units may be established by type if the type is designated in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You must elect to insure your canola and rapeseed with either revenue protection or yield protection by the sales closing date; and
(b) In counties with both fall and spring sales closing dates for the insured crop:
(1) If you do not have any insurable fall planted acreage of the insured crop, you may
change your coverage level, or your percentage of projected price (if you have yield protection), or elect revenue protection or yield protection, until the spring sales closing date; or
(2) If you have any insurable fall planted acreage of the insured crop, you may not change your coverage level, or your percentage of projected price (if you have yield protection), or elect revenue protection or yield protection, after the fall sales closing date.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a March 15 cancellation date, and June 30 preceding the cancellation date for all other counties.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
The cancellation and termination dates are as follows, unless otherwise specified in the actuarial documents:
State and county
Cancellation date
Termination date
(a) All counties in Alabama and Georgia
September 30
September 30.
(b) Blaine, Bonneville, Fremont, Jefferson, Madison, and Teton counties in Idaho; and all counties in Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, and South Dakota
March 15
March 15.
(c) All counties in Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia
August 31
August 31.
(d) All other Idaho counties, Oregon, and Washington
August 31
October 31.

# 6. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all canola and rapeseed in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial table:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That is planted for harvest as seed; and
(c) That is not, unless allowed by Special Provisions or by written agreement:
(1) Interplanted with another crop; or
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
In addition to section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions;
(b) Whenever the Special Provisions designate only a fall final planting date, any acreage of canola or rapeseed damaged before such final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a fall type of the insured crop unless we agree that replanting is not practical;
(c) Whenever the Special Provisions designate both fall and spring final planting dates:
(1) Any fall canola or rapeseed that is damaged before the spring final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a fall type of the insured crop to maintain insurance based on the fall type unless we agree that replanting is not practical. If it is not practical to replant to the fall type of canola or rapeseed but is practical to replant to a spring type, you must replant to a spring type to keep your insurance based on the fall type in force; and
(2) Any fall canola or rapeseed acreage that is replanted to a spring type of the same crop when it was practical to replant the fall type will be insured as the spring type and the production guarantee, premium, projected price, and harvest price applicable to the spring type will be used. In this case, the acreage will be considered to be initially planted to the spring type; and
(d) Whenever the Special Provisions designate a spring final planting date, any acreage of spring canola or rapeseed damaged before such final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a spring type of the insured crop unless we agree that replanting is not practical; or
(e) Whenever the Special Provisions designate only a spring final planting date, any acreage of fall planted canola or rapeseed is not insured unless you request such coverage on or before the spring sales closing date, and we determine in writing that the acreage has an adequate stand in the spring to produce the yield used to determine your production guarantee. However, if we fail to inspect the acreage by the spring final planting date, insurance will attach as specified in section 7(e)(3):
(1) Your request for coverage must include the location and number of acres of fall planted canola or rapeseed;
(2) The fall planted canola or rapeseed will be insured as a spring type for the purpose of the production guarantee, premium
,
projected price, and harvest price, if applicable;
(3) Insurance will attach to such acreage on the date we determine an adequate stand exists or on the spring final planting date if
we do not determine adequacy of the stand by the spring final planting date;
(4) Any acreage of such fall planted canola or rapeseed that is damaged after it is accepted for insurance but before the spring final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a spring type of the insured crop unless we agree it is not practical to replant; and
(5) If fall planted acreage is not to be insured it must be recorded on the acreage report as uninsured fall planted acreage.

# 8. Insurance Period
In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is October 31 of the calendar year in which the crop is normally harvested, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.

# 9. Causes of Loss
In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss which occur during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption;
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply due to a cause of loss specified in sections 9(a) through (g) that also occurs during the insurance period; or
(i) For revenue protection, a change in the harvest price from the projected price, unless FCIC can prove the price change was the direct result of an uninsured cause of loss specified in section 12(a) of the Basic Provisions.

# 10. Replanting Payment
(a) A replanting payment is allowed as follows:
(1) In lieu of provisions in section 13 of the Basic Provisions that limit the amount of a replant payment to the actual cost of replanting, the amount of any replanting payment will be determined in accordance with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Except as specified in section 10(a)(1), you must comply with all requirements regarding replanting payments contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions;
(3) The insured crop must be damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage; and
(4) The replanted crop must be seeded at a rate sufficient to achieve a total (undamaged and new seeding) plant population that is considered appropriate by agricultural experts for the insured crop, type and practice.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions, the amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 20 percent of the production guarantee or 175 pounds, multiplied by your projected price, multiplied by your share.
(c) When the crop is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable for an original planting, the liability on the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced.
(d) Replanting payments will be calculated using your projected price and your production guarantee for the crop type that is replanted and insured.
(1) For example, if damaged Spring Oleic Canola is replanted to Spring High Erucic Rapeseed, your projected price applicable to Spring High Erucic Rapeseed will be used to calculate any replanting payment that may be due. A revised acreage report will be required to reflect the replanted type.
(2) Notwithstanding section 10(d)(1), the following will have a replanting payment based on your production guarantee and your projected price for the crop type initially planted:
(i) Any damaged winter crop type that is replanted to a spring crop type, but that retains insurance based on the winter crop type; and
(ii) Any acreage replanted at a reduced seeding rate into a partially damaged stand of the insured crop.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
Representative samples are required in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production that are acceptable to us for any:
(1) Optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or
(2) Basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the number of insured acres of each type, as applicable, by your respective:
(i) Yield protection guarantee (per acre) if you elected yield protection; or
(ii) Revenue protection guarantee (per acre) if you elected revenue protection;
(2) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(1)(i) or 12(b)(1)(ii), whichever is applicable;
(3) Multiplying the production to count of each type, as applicable, by your respective:
(i) Projected price if you elected yield protection; or
(ii) Harvest price if you elected revenue protection;
(4) Totaling the results of section 12(b)(3)(i) or 12(b)(3)(ii), whichever is applicable;
(5) Subtracting the result of section 12(b)(4) from the result of section 12(b)(2); and
(6) Multiplying the result of section 12(b)(5) by your share.

# Example for Section 12(b)
You have 100 percent share in 50 acres of canola in the unit with a production guarantee (per acre) of 1,350 pounds, your projected price is $.26, your harvest price is $.24, and your production to count is 51,000 pounds.
If you elected yield protection:
(1) 50 acres × (1,350 pound production guarantee × $.26 projected price) = $17,550.00 value of the production guarantee;
(2) Not applicable;
(3) 51,000 pound production to count × $.26 projected price = $13,260.00 value of the production to count;
(4) Not applicable;
(5) $17,550.00−$13,260.00 = $4,290.00; and
(6) $4,290.00 × 1.000 share = $4,290.00 indemnity; or
If you elected revenue protection:
(1) 50 acres × (1,350 pound production guarantee × $.26 projected price) = $17,550.00 revenue protection guarantee;
(2) Not applicable;
(3) 51,000 pound production to count × $.24 harvest price = $12,240.00 value of the production to count;
(4) Not applicable;
(5) $17,550.00−$12,240.00 = $5,310.00; and
(6) $5,310.00 × 1.000 share = $5,310.00 indemnity.
End of Example.
(c) The total production to count (pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) For yield protection, not less than the production guarantee and for revenue protection, not less than the amount of production that when multiplied by the harvest price equals the revenue protection guarantee (per acre) for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 12(d)); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(d) Mature canola may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. Mature rapeseed may be adjusted for excess moisture only. If moisture adjustment is applicable, it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality.
(1) Canola and rapeseed production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of 8.5 percent. We must be permitted to obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Canola production will be eligible for quality adjustment if:
(i) Deficiencies in quality, in accordance with the Official United States Standards for Grain, result in the canola not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 3 or better (U.S. Sample grade) because of kernel damage (excluding heat damage), or a musty, sour, or commercially objectionable foreign odor; or
(ii) Substances or conditions are present that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health.
(3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss in canola production only if:
(i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these Crop Provisions and which occurs within the insurance period;
(ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions result in a net price for the damaged production that is less than the local market price;
(iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions are made using samples of the production obtained by us or by a disinterested third party approved by us;
(iv) With regard to deficiencies in quality, the samples are analyzed by:
(A) A grain grader licensed under the United States Grain Standards Act or the United States Warehouse Act;
(B) A grain grader licensed under State law and employed by a warehouse operator who has a storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation; or
(C) A grain grader not licensed under State law, but who is employed by a warehouse operator who has a commodity storage agreement with the Commodity Credit Corporation and is in compliance with State law regarding warehouses; and
(v) With regard to substances or conditions injurious to human or animal health, the samples analyzed by a laboratory approved by us.
(4) Canola production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in sections 12(d)(2) and (3), will be reduced in accordance with the quality adjustment factors contained in the Special Provisions.
(e) Any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on an unadjusted weight basis.

# 13. Late Planting
In lieu of section 16(a) of the Basic Provisions, the production guarantee for each acre planted to the insured crop during the late planting period will be reduced by 1 percent per day for each day planted after the final planting date unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.

# 14. Prevented Planting
In counties for which the Special Provisions designate a spring final planting date, your prevented planting production guarantee will be based on your approved yield for spring-planted acreage of the insured crop. Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[62 FR 65997, Dec. 17, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 43526, June 28, 2002; 75 FR 15889, Mar. 30, 2010; 81 FR 84401, Nov. 23, 2016; 85 FR 31942, May 28, 2020; 89 FR 53844, June 27, 2024]
§ 457.162
Nursery crop insurance provisions.
The Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2019 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC Policies

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured Policies

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and Reinsured Policies

# Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions

# 1. Definitions
American Standard for Nursery Stock.
A publication of the American Nursery and Landscape Association, or a subsequent successor organization, issued in accordance with the rules of the American National Standards Institute, Inc. that provides common terminology and standards for nurseries.
Amount of insurance.
For the purposes of calculating premium, the result of multiplying the basic unit value by your selected coverage level and by your share. For the purpose of determining the amount of any indemnity, the result of multiplying the basic unit value by your selected coverage level and by your share minus any previous indemnities during the crop year paid under these Crop Provisions.
Basic unit value.
The full inventory value of all insurable plants in a basic unit declared on your original or revised PIVR and a Peak Inventory Value Report, if applicable.
Catalog.
Any document, including but not limited to printed discount schedules, issued by your nursery and used to advise actual and/or potential buyers of the amount you are charging for purchases of each plant included in the inventory.
(1) Such documents may be issued by season, by plant type, or other basis consistent with your business practices.
(2) The documents can be in any form, but must meet the minimum standards contained in section 6(j), except that the printed discount schedules do not have to be provided to customers.
Container grown.
A nursery production practice in which plants are grown in standard nursery containers: above the ground;
placed in the ground; or when placed in another standard nursery container in the ground (
i.e.,
pot-in-pot).
Crop Inventory Valuation Report (CIVR).
A plant inventory list created on the Nursery Inventory Software for assisting in establishing the insurable nursery plant inventory value.
Crop year.
The period beginning the day insurance attaches and extending until the following May 31. Crop year is designated by the year in which the insurance period ends.
Crop year deductible.
The basic unit value multiplied by the deductible minus the amount of any previously-incurred deductible if you have reported each loss to us in accordance with section 11(a)(2). The crop year deductible will be increased for any increases in the inventory value on the PIVR or through the purchase of a Peak Inventory Endorsement, if in effect at the time of loss.
Eligible Plant List and Plant Price Schedule (EPLPPS).
A component of the actuarial documents that is published by FCIC on RMA's website and is also available on compact disk from your crop insurance agent. The EPLPPS contains the following information:
(1) The botanical and common names of insurable plants;
(2) The cold protection requirements for container grown material and the areas in which they apply;
(3) The hardiness zone in which field grown material is insurable;
(4) The designated hardiness zones available for each county;
(5) The plant type, storage key, and hardiness zone classification for each plant on the list; and
(6) A schedule of insurable plant prices that establishes the highest value accepted for insurance purposes unless otherwise allowed by the policy or an endorsement to the policy.
Fabric grow bag.
A fabric bag (including a woven or matted bag with a plastic or fabric bottom) used for growing plants in-ground or as an above-ground nursery plant container that provides adequate drainage and is appropriate in size for the plant.
Field grown.
A nursery production practice in which plants are grown in the ground. Plants grown in in-ground fabric grow bags, plants that are balled and burlapped, or plants grown in containers that allow the plants to root (excluding fibrous roots) into the ground (for example, a container without a bottom) are also considered field grown.
Field market value A (FMVA).
Our determination of the value of all insurable plants in the basic unit immediately prior to the occurrence of a loss event. This value will be determined in accordance with the requirements of section 6 of these Crop Provisions. For liners, the total value of undamaged liners is multiplied by the survival factor to determine the value of undamaged insurable plants.
Field market value B (FMVB).
Our determination of the value of all damaged and undamaged insurable plants in the basic unit following the occurrence of a loss event. This value will be determined in accordance with the requirements of section 6 of these Crop Provisions with an adjustment for the amount of damage we determine the plants have sustained.
Good nursery practices.
In addition to the definition of “good farming practices” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the horticultural practices generally in use in the area for nursery plants to make normal progress toward the stage of growth at which marketing can occur and: (1) For conventional practices, generally recognized by agricultural experts for the area as compatible with the nursery plant production practices and weather conditions in the county; or (2) for organic practices, generally recognized by the organic agricultural industry for the area as compatible with the nursery plant production practices and weather conditions in the county or contained in the organic plan. We may, or you may request us to, contact FCIC to determine whether or not production methods will be considered to be “good nursery practices.”
Irrigated practice.
In lieu of the definition in the Basic Provisions, the application of water, using appropriate systems and at the proper times, to provide the quantity of water needed to sustain normal growth of your insured plant inventory and provide cold protection for applicable plants as specified in the EPLPPS.
Liners.
Plants produced in standard nursery containers that have a minimum dimension greater than or equal to
5/8
inch and a maximum dimension of less than 3 inches at the widest point of the container or cell interior, have an established root system, and meet all other conditions specified in the Special Provisions.
Loss.
FMVA minus FMVB, as adjusted by any under-report factor or over-report factor. Payments made under the Rehabilitation Endorsement are not considered to be a loss.
Lowest price.
The lesser of the minimum price stated in your catalog or the price contained in the EPLPPS for a plant and its size. The minimum price in your catalog is the lowest price at which you will sell that plant and size to any buyer, including all incremental volume discounts or any other discounting factor.
Marketable.
A plant that can be sold in a customary or secondary market for a non-zero value.
Monthly proration factors.
Factors contained in the actuarial documents that are used to calculate premium when you do not
insure the nursery plants for an entire crop year.
Nursery.
A business enterprise that grows the nursery plants. At least 40 percent of its gross income derived from plant sales must be from the wholesale marketing of such plants.
Occurrence deductible.
This deductible allows a smaller deductible than the crop year deductible to be used when FMVA is more or less than the reported basic unit value. The occurrence deductible is the lesser of:
(1) The deductible multiplied by FMVA and:
(i) In under-report situations, multiplied by the under-report factor; or
(ii) In over-report situations, multiplied by the sum of 1.000 plus the over-report factor; or
(2) The crop year deductible.
Over-report factor.
The factor that adjusts your indemnity for over-reporting of inventory values. This factor is used to determine indemnities when the basic unit value minus the total of all previous losses is more than 110 percent of FMVA for the same basic unit plus the insured value of plants listed on the verifiable sales records. The over-report factor is calculated by:
(1) The basic unit value minus the total of all previous losses;
(2) FMVA plus the insured value of plants listed on the verifiable sales records;
(3) Dividing the result of paragraph (1) of this definition by the result of paragraph (2) of this definition; and
(4) Subtracting 1.100 from the result of paragraph (3) of this definition.
(5) If the result of paragraph (4) of this definition is greater than 0.000, then the result of paragraph (4) is the over-report factor that is applied.
PIVR.
The plant inventory value report, your report that declares the value of insurable plants in accordance with section 6.
Practice.
A cultural method of producing plants identified in the actuarial documents.
Restock.
Replacement of lost or damaged plants that increases the value of the insurable inventory to an amount greater than the remaining amount of insurance.
Sales closing date.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the date shown in the Special Provisions. New-policy applications may be filed at any time. However, all applications, including those for new or amended coverage, are subject to a 30-day waiting period before commencement of coverage as specified in sections 3(d) and 9(a) of these Crop Provisions.
Standard nursery containers.
Rigid containers that have a minimum dimension greater than or equal to
5/8
inch, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, at the widest point of the container interior, above-ground fabric grow bags, and other types of containers specified in the Special Provisions that are appropriate in size and provide adequate drainage for the plant. In-ground fabric grow bags, balled and burlapped, and trays (flats) without individual cells are not considered standard nursery containers.
Stock plants.
Plants used solely for propagation during the insurance period.
Survival factor.
A value specified in the Special Provisions that denotes the expected percentage of liners that normally survive the period from insurance attachment to market.
Under-report factor.
The factor that adjusts your indemnity for under-reporting of inventory values. The factor is always used in determining indemnities. For each basic unit, the under-report factor is the lesser of:
(1) 1.000; or
(2) The basic unit value minus the total of all previous losses; and dividing that result by FMVA.
Wholesale.
To sell nursery plants in large quantities at a price below that offered on low-quantity sales to retailers, commercial users, governmental end-users, or other end-users for business purposes (
e.g.
sales to landscape contractors and commercial fruit producers). This determination will be based on a county-by-county basis.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) If you elect additional coverage for a practice, a basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, may be divided into additional basic units by:
(1) Each insurable plant type for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents; or
(2) For the field grown practice only, non-contiguous land. Basic units by non-contiguous land for the container grown practice may be allowed if provided for in the Special Provisions.
(b) Only the plant types listed in the actuarial documents are insurable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
(a) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select either catastrophic risk protection or additional coverage for each insured practice. An administrative fee established in accordance with section 7(e) of the Basic Provisions will be owed for each practice insured.
(c) In lieu of section 3(b) of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you select additional coverage for a practice:
(i) You may select one coverage level for each plant type insured in that practice if you elect basic units by plant type;
(ii) You will receive 100 percent of the price election for all plant types in that practice;
(iii) You must provide on the application a coverage level percentage for each plant type that will be insured; and
(iv) You must select a coverage level if:
(A) A new plant is added under a revised PIVR or Peak Inventory Value Report, if applicable; and
(B) The new plant is not categorized under a plant type reported on the initial PIVR or Peak Inventory Value Report, if applicable.
(2) If you select catastrophic risk protection for a practice, all plant types under the practice must be insured at the catastrophic risk protection level.
(d) In lieu of section 3(d) of the Basic Provisions, you may request changes to the coverage level for a plant type by submitting them in writing to us as follows:
(1) For new policies, changes cannot be made for the crop year after the date of the application; and
(2) For carryover policies:
(i) Changes must be requested on or before the sales closing date; and
(ii) Unless we reject the proposed increase because a loss occurs within 30 days of the date the request is made (rejection can occur at any time we discover such loss has occurred), requested changes will take effect on the date of the start of the crop year.
(e) If you restock your nursery plant inventory, you may increase your amount of insurance in accordance with section 6(f).

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is January 31 of each crop year.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are May 31 preceding the crop year.

# 6. PIVR
(a) Section 6 of the Basic Provisions is not applicable.
(b) You must submit a separate PIVR for each insured practice, as applicable, and two copies of your most recent catalog to us with your application and on or before the sales closing date for each crop year following the year of application. If you elected basic units by non-contiguous land, you must also submit a separate PIVR for each non-contiguous land unit within the insured practice, and keep all records separate by unit.
(1) You will be notified in writing on or before the end of the 30-day waiting period if an application for insurance is rejected because the inspection determines you do not meet the insurability requirements or the PIVR, catalog, or supporting documentation (if requested by us) is not acceptable.
(2) If you fail to provide a PIVR or catalog on or before the sales closing date for any crop year, insurance will not attach until the 31st day after all such documents have been received by your crop insurance agent and we will not be liable for any losses that occur before insurance has attached.
(c) The PIVR must include, by basic unit, all growing locations, basic unit value, coverage level selected, as applicable, and your share.
(1) If you do not elect additional basic units by plant type, or additional basic units by non-contiguous land, or if you elect catastrophic risk protection coverage, the inventory values for each plant type in the basic unit must be separately reported on the PIVR and totaled to determine the basic unit value.
(2) At our option, you will be required to provide documentation in support of your PIVR, including, but not limited to the following:
(i) A detailed plant inventory listing that includes the name, the number, and the size of each plant, or a CIVR;
(ii) Acceptable records of sales and purchases of plants for the three previous crop years in the amount of detail we require. Acceptable records must contain the name and telephone number of the purchaser or seller, as applicable, names of the plants, the number of each plant sold or purchased, and the sales price for each plant; and
(iii) Your ability to properly obtain and maintain nursery plants.
(3) If you fail to provide the requested documentation:
(i) Before insurance attaches, your insurance will be denied for the crop year for any basic units for which you did not provide such documentation. This provision does not apply to:
(A) Plant varieties you have not previously grown; or
(B) New nurseries where an inspection has determined you have the ability to properly obtain and maintain the nursery plants.
(ii) After insurance attaches, you will still owe premium, but you will not receive an indemnity for any basic units for which you did not provide such documentation. This provision does not apply to:
(A) Plant varieties you have not previously grown; or
(B) New nurseries where an inspection has determined you have the ability to properly obtain and maintain the nursery plants.
(4) If you provide inadequate documentation (
i.e.,
documentation that does not support the amount for which you reported) after insurance attaches for each basic unit, your insurance will not be denied for the crop year. However, your failure to provide adequate documentation may result in a reduction in your indemnity for each basic
unit where inadequate documentation was provided.
(5) For policies insured at the catastrophic risk protection level, you must report, on the PIVR for each practice insured, your greatest plant sales in any of the previous three years and the actual inventory value on the date insurance attaches. For each applicable practice, the total of your basic unit values cannot exceed 110 percent of the higher of your:
(i) Greatest amount of plant sales in any of the previous three years; or
(ii) Actual inventory value on the date insurance attaches
(d) Your PIVR, including any revised report, and your Peak Inventory Value Report, if applicable, will be used to determine your premium and amount of insurance.
(e) Your PIVR must reflect your insurable basic unit value.
(1) The basic unit value you report on your PIVR must be based on the lowest price for each plant size included in the inventory. The inventory value of insured liners must be multiplied by the survival factor.
(2) In no instance will we be liable for plant values greater than those contained in the EPLPPS.
(3) If you have previously made a claim and the loss adjuster is unable to determine whether a plant was damaged prior to submission of your PIVR for the current crop year, the plant will be insurable at full value based on the lesser of the Eligible Plant List price or the catalog or price list price. The value of the plant may be reduced at any time during the crop year if the extent of damage is discovered.
(f) You may increase your reported inventory value for each basic unit no more than twice during the crop year by submitting a revised PIVR prior to 30 days before the end of such crop year.
(1) Any requested increase must be made in writing and meet all the requirements of the original PIVR.
(2) We will perform an inspection of the nursery to determine if adequate and acceptable facilities exist to accommodate the requested increased inventory value when the total of all the basic unit values contained on the revised PIVR or Peak Inventory Value Report, if applicable, is increased 50 percent or more from the previous total of all the basic unit values on the PIVR, and the increase is not due to restocking subsequent to an insured loss.
(3) At our discretion, we may inspect the nursery to determine if adequate and acceptable facilities exist to accommodate the requested increased inventory value if an increase of less than 50 percent is reported on the revised PIVR or Peak Inventory Value Report, if applicable.
(4) Your revised PIVR will be considered accepted by us and insurance will attach on any proposed increase in inventory value 30 days after your written request is received unless we reject the proposed increase in your plant inventory value in writing.
(5) We will reject any requested increase if a loss occurs within 30 days of the date the request is made (rejection can occur at any time we discover such loss has occurred).
(6) You cannot revise your PIVR to decrease the plant inventory value after the start of the insurance period specified in section 9.
(7) Notwithstanding section 6(f), if you have suffered an insured loss on a basic unit and have restocked the nursery, then you are allowed to increase your reported inventory value for the basic unit one additional time by submitting a revised PIVR.
(g) For insurable plants that were damaged prior to the attachment of insurance coverage:
(1) The applicable price, as determined in accordance with section 6(e), will be reduced for inventory reporting purposes if we accept such plants for insurance coverage;
(2) The insurable value of such plants will be removed from the applicable basic unit value reported on the PIVR if they are not accepted;
(3) The procedure for calculating the insurable value of damaged plants that are accepted for coverage is contained in the Special Provisions.
(h) You must report the full value of each basic unit value in accordance with section 6(e). Failure to report the full value of each basic unit value will result in the reduction of any claim in accordance with section 12(d).
(i) Insurable plants in over-sized containers will be valued for purposes of reporting inventory and loss adjustment as if the plants were in appropriate-sized containers in accordance with the standards contained in the current American Standard for Nursery Stock. Each cell in a multiple-cell container is considered a separate container. (See the EPLPPS on RMA's websitefor additional information and requirements on container specifications and volume calculation.)
(j) At a minimum, your catalog must meet the following standards:
(1) Be type-written and legible;
(2) Show an issue date on the cover page (may be handwritten);
(3) Contain the name, address, and phone number of your nursery;
(4) Be provided to customers (except printed discount schedules) and used in the sale of your plants; and
(5) List each plant's name (botanical or common), plant or container size, and wholesale price.

# 7. Premium
(a) In lieu of section 7(c) of the Basic Provisions, we will determine your premium by
multiplying the amount of insurance by the appropriate premium rate, any premium adjustment factor, and the monthly proration factor contained in the actuarial documents. If you elect catastrophic risk protection coverage, this calculation must also be multiplied by fifty-five percent.
(b) In addition to the provisions in section 7 of the Basic Provisions, we will prorate your premium based on:
(1) The time remaining in the crop year after insurance attaches:
(i) If you have made application after the start of the insurance period specified in section 9; or
(ii) If you submit a PIVR or catalog after the sales closing date;
(2) The time remaining in the crop year after insurance attaches and the additional amount of inventory reported, if you submit a revised PIVR to report an increase in inventory value for a basic unit; and
(3) The time period for which insurance is provided under the Peak Inventory Endorsement.
(c) Premium will be charged for the entire month for any calendar month during which any amount of coverage is provided under these provisions or the Peak Inventory Endorsement.
(d) In lieu of section 7(a) of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you apply for insurance before the premium billing date listed in the actuarial documents, the annual premium is earned and payable at the time coverage begins. You will be billed for the premium and administrative fee not earlier than the premium billing date listed in the actuarial documents.
(2) If you apply for insurance, or submit your PIVR or catalog, on or after the premium billing date listed in the actuarial documents, the premium for the partial crop year will be due and must be paid at the time of application or submission of your PIVR or catalog.
(3) Failure to pay the premium at the time of application or when you submit your PIVR or catalog will result in no insurance and no indemnity being owed for the crop year.

# 8. Insured Crop and Plants
In lieu of the provisions of sections 8 and 9 of the Basic Provisions, the insured crop will be all nursery plants in each practice you elect to insure, and:
(a) For which you have a share;
(b) Are shown on the EPLPPS and meet all the requirements for insurability (plant types, species and cultivars not insurable under the EPLPPS may be insured by written agreement, subject to FCIC's determination that the proper storage requirements and an accurate insurable price for the plant can be determined, and provided all other requirements, such as plant and container size, are met);
(c) Are determined by us to be acceptable;
(d) Are grown in a county for which a premium rate is provided in the actuarial documents;
(e) Are grown in a nursery inspected by us and determined to be acceptable;
(f) Are irrigated unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions (you must have adequate irrigation equipment and water to irrigate all insurable nursery plants at the time coverage begins and throughout the insurance period);
(g) Are grown in accordance with the production practices for which premium rates have been established;
(h) Are grown in an appropriate medium;
(i) Are grown and sold with the root system attached;
(j) Are not stock plants or plants being grown solely for harvest of buds, flowers, or greenery;
(k) May produce edible fruits or nuts provided the plants are made available for sale (harvest of the edible fruit or nuts does not affect insurability); and
(l) Are not produced in nursery containers that contain two or more different genera, species, subspecies, varieties or cultivars.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In lieu of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) For the year of application, if you apply for coverage:
(i) On or before May 1st of the crop year, coverage begins June 1st, unless we notify you in writing that your application is rejected because your PIVR, catalog, or supporting documentation (if requested by us) is not acceptable;
(ii) After May 1st, coverage will not begin until the 31st day after we receive all acceptable documents; and
(2) For continuous policies, the insurance period begins on each June 1st.
(b) Insurance ends at the earliest of:
(1) The date of final adjustment of a loss when the total indemnities due equal the amount of insurance;
(2) Removal of bare root nursery plant material from the field;
(3) Removal of all other insured plant material from the nursery;
(4) May 31st; or
(5) Abandonment of the crop on the basic unit.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided for unavoidable damage caused only by the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions, except as specified in section 10(c) or the Special Provisions;
(2) Fire, provided weeds and undergrowth in the vicinity of the plants or buildings on your insured site are controlled by chemical or mechanical means;
(3) Wildlife;
(4) Earthquake; or
(5) Volcanic eruption.
(b) Insurance is also provided against the following if due to a cause of loss specified in section 10(a) that occurs within the insurance period:
(1) A loss in plant values because of an inability to market such plants, provided such plants would have been marketed during the crop year (e.g. poinsettias that are not marketable during their usual and recognized marketing period of November 1st through December 25th);
(2) Failure of the irrigation water supply; or
(3) Failure of, or reduction in, the power supply.
(c) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in sections 12(a) and (c) through (f) of the Basic Provisions, we do not insure against any loss caused by:
(1) Disease or insect infestation, unless:
(i) A disease or insect infestation occurs for which no effective control measure exists; or
(ii) Coverage is specifically provided by the Special Provisions.
(2) The inability to market the nursery plants as a result of:
(i) The refusal of a buyer to accept production;
(ii) Boycott; or
(iii) An order from a public official prohibiting sales including, but not limited to, a stop sales order, quarantine, or phytosanitary restriction on sales;
(3) Cold temperatures, if cold protection is required in the EPLPPS, unless you have installed adequate cold protection equipment or facilities and:
(i) There is a failure or breakdown of the cold protection equipment or facilities resulting from an insurable cause of loss specified in section 10(a) (the insured plants must be damaged by cold temperatures and the damage must occur within 72 hours of the failure of such equipment or facilities unless we establish that repair or replacement was not possible between the time of failure or breakdown and the time the damaging temperatures occurred); or
(ii) The lowest temperature or its duration exceeded the ability of the required cold protection equipment or facilities to keep the insured plants from sustaining cold damage;
(4) Collapse or failure of buildings or structures, unless the damage to the building or structures results from a cause of loss specified in section 10(a);
(5) Any cause of loss, including those specified in section 10(a), if the only damage suffered is a failure of plants to grow to an expected size; or
(6) Failure to follow recognized good nursery practices.

# 11. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) In addition to your duties contained in section 14 of the Basic Provisions,
(1) You must obtain our written consent prior to:
(i) Destroying, selling or otherwise disposing of any plant inventory that is damaged; or
(ii) Changing or discontinuing your normal growing practices with respect to care and maintenance of the insured plants.
(2) You must submit a claim for indemnity to us on our form, not later than 60 days after the date of your loss, but in no event later than 60 days after the end of the insurance period. This requirement will be waived by us if the final adjustment of your claim is totally or partially deferred because we are unable to make an accurate determination of the amount of damage to the insured plants. If within the time frame specified we notify you that we are unable to make an accurate determination of damage on all or some of your damaged plants:
(i) For those damaged plants on which the loss adjustment and claim have not been deferred, you must submit a partial claim within the time frame specified in section 11(a)(2) and we will settle your claim on such plants;
(ii) For those damaged plants on which the loss adjustment and claim have been deferred, we will determine the amount of damage at the earliest possible date but no later than one year after the end of the insurance period for the crop year in which the damage occurred; and
(iii) You must maintain the identity of the plants on which loss adjustment is deferred throughout the deferral period.
(b) If you fail to obtain our written consent as required by section 11(a)(1), your claim will be denied on each basic unit for which written consent was not obtained.

# 12. Settlement of Claim
We will determine indemnities for any unit as follows:
(a) Determine the under-report factor or over-report factor, as applicable, for the basic unit;
(b) Determine the occurrence deductible;
(c) Subtract FMVB from FMVA;
(d) Multiply the result of 12(c) by the under-report factor or one minus the over-report factor (1.000 − over-report factor), as applicable;
(e) Subtract the occurrence deductible from the result in section 12(d); and
(f) If the result of section 12(e) is greater than zero, and subject to the limit stated in section 12(g):
(1) For additional coverage, your indemnity equals the result of section 12(e) multiplied by your share.
(2) For catastrophic risk protection coverage, your indemnity equals the result of section 12(e) multiplied by fifty-five percent and by your share.
(g) The total of all indemnities for the crop year will not exceed the amount of insurance, including any peak amount of insurance during the coverage term of the Peak Inventory Endorsement, if this endorsement is elected.
(h) In order to prevent your indemnity from being reduced when you have over-reported your basic unit value, the following must apply: FMVA plus the insured value of the plants listed on the verifiable sales records must support, within 10 percent, the basic unit value reported on the PIVR, revised PIVR, and Peak Inventory Value Report, if applicable, minus the total of all previous losses. Otherwise, any indemnity for that basic unit will be reduced by an over-report factor.
(i) If you elected basic units by non-contiguous land, in accordance with section 3(a)(ii), and you do not keep your records separate by unit, we will combine all basic units for which records were not kept separate.

# 13. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions in the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 14. Written Agreements
(a) Written agreements may only be requested for plants not listed on the EPLPPS.
(b) In lieu of section 18(a) of the Basic Provisions, you must request in writing a written agreement with the application for the initial crop year, and not later than the sales closing date for each subsequent crop year, except as provided in section 14(d).
(c) In lieu of the requirements of section 18(d) of the Basic Provisions, any written agreement is valid only until the end of the insurance period for the crop year such written agreement applies; and
(d) In lieu of section 18(e) of the Basic Provisions, an application for a written agreement submitted after the date of application for the initial crop year and the sales closing date for all subsequent crop years may be approved if:
(1) You demonstrate your physical inability to have applied timely; and
(2) After physical examination of the nursery plant inventory, we determine the inventory will be marketable at the value shown on the PIVR.

# 15. Examples

# Single Unit Example for an Under-Report Situation
Assume you have a 100 percent share and the basic unit value reported by you is $100,000. Your coverage level is 75 percent. Your amount of insurance is $75,000 ($100,000 × .75). At the time of loss, we determine that the value of your inventory immediately before the loss (FMVA) is $125,000, and the value after the loss (FMVB) is $80,000. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
Step (1): $100,000 ÷ $125,000 = .80 is the under-report factor;
Step (2): The occurrence deductible is the lesser of a) .25 × $125,000 × .80 = $25,000; or b) $100,000 × (1.00 − .75) = $25,000;
Step (3): $125,000 − $80,000 = $45,000 loss;
Step (4): $45,000 × .80 = $36,000 loss after the under-report factor is applied;
Step (5): $36,000 − $25,000 = $11,000 loss after the occurrence deductible; and
Step (6): $11,000 × 1.000 share = $11,000 indemnity payment.

# Single Unit Example for an Over-Report Situation
Assume you have a 100 percent share and the basic unit value reported by you is $125,000. Your coverage level is 75 percent. Your amount of insurance is $93,750 ($125,000 × .75). At the time of loss, we determine that the value of your inventory immediately before the loss (FMVA) is $100,000, and the value after the loss (FMVB) is $50,000. You provide verifiable sales records containing an insured value of plants equaling $10,000. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
Step (1): ($125,000 ÷ ($100,000 + $10,000)) − 1.100 = .04 is the over-report factor;
Step (2): The occurrence deductible is the lesser of: a) .25 × $100,000 × (1.000 + .04) = $26,000; or b) .25 × $125,000 = $31,250;
Step (3): $100,000 − $50,000 = $50,000 loss;
Step (4): $50,000 × (1.000 − .04) = $48,000 loss after the over-report factor is applied;
Step (5): $48,000 − $26,000 = $22,000 loss after the occurrence deductible; and
Step (6): $22,000 × 1.000 share = $22,000 indemnity payment.

# Peak Inventory Value Report Example
Assume you have a second loss on the same basic unit as the first example. Your amount of insurance has been reduced by subtracting your previous indemnity payment of $11,000 from your amount of insurance ($75,000 − $11,000 = $64,000). Your crop year deductible has been reduced to zero by the previous loss ($25,000 − $36,000, but not less than zero). You purchase a Peak Inventory Endorsement and report $60,000 in inventory. Your peak amount of insurance is your reported inventory times your coverage level ($60,000 × .75 =
$45,000). The combined amount of insurance for the coverage term of the peak endorsement is $64,000 + $45,000 = $109,000. Your crop year deductible is increased by $15,000 ($60,000 × .25). At the time of loss, we determine that the value of your inventory immediately before the loss (FMVA) is $124,000, and the value after the loss (FMVB) is $58,000. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
Step (1): ($160,000 − $36,000)/$124,000 = 1.00 is the under-report factor;
Step (2): The occurrence deductible is the lesser of: a) .25 × $60,000 × 1.00 = $15,000; or b) $60,000 × .25 = $15,000;
Step (3): $124,000 − $58,000 = $66,000 loss;
Step (4): $66,000 × 1.00 = $66,000 loss after the under-report factor is applied;
Step (5): $66,000 − $15,000 = $51,000 loss after the occurrence deductible; and
Step (6): $51,000 × 1.000 share = $51,000 indemnity payment.
Your peak amount of insurance is reduced to zero. Your amount of insurance is reduced by the amount the indemnity exceeds the peak amount of insurance. $64,000 − ($51,000 − $45,000) = $64,000 − $6,000 = $58,000.
[63 FR 50975, Sept. 24, 1998; 63 FR 57046, Oct. 26, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 37241, June 28, 2005; 71 FR 74456, Dec. 12, 2006; 83 FR 4570, Jan. 31, 2018; 83 FR 12657, Mar. 23, 2018]
§ 457.163
Nursery peak inventory endorsement.

# Nursery Crop Insurance

# Peak Inventory Endorsement
This endorsement is not continuous and must be purchased for each crop year to be effective for that crop year.
In return for payment of premium for the coverage contained herein, this endorsement will be attached to and made part of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions, subject to the terms and conditions described herein.

# 1. Definitions
Coverage commencement date.
The later of the date you declare as the beginning of the coverage or 30 days after a properly completed Peak Inventory Value Report is received by us.
Coverage term.
A period of time that begins on the coverage commencement date and ends on the coverage termination date.
Coverage termination date.
The date you declare that the peak amount of insurance will cease. This date cannot be after the end of the crop year.
Peak amount of insurance.
The additional inventory value reported on the Peak Inventory Value Report for each basic unit multiplied by your coverage level and by your share.
Peak Inventory Value Report.
A report that increases the value of insurable plants over the value reported on the PIVR, declares the coverage commencement and coverage termination dates, and the other requirements of section 6 of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions.
Peak inventory premium adjustment factor.
A factor calculated by subtracting the monthly proration factor for the month following the month containing the coverage termination date from the proration factor for the month in which coverage commenced. Peak Inventory Endorsements with a coverage termination date during the month of May will have a premium adjustment factor equal to the proration factor for the month containing the coverage commencement date.
Restock.
Replacement of lost or damaged plants that increase the value of your insurable inventory to an amount greater than your remaining amount of insurance.

# 2. Eligibility
(a) You must have insurance under the Nursery Crop Insurance Provision in effect for the crop year that this endorsement applies;
(b) You must have elected an additional level of coverage.
(c) You must submit a Peak Inventory Value Report, which will serve as the application for coverage under this endorsement.
(1) The Peak Inventory Value Report may contain one or more plant type basic units and each plant type basic unit will be considered a separate Peak Inventory Endorsement.
(2) We may reject the Peak Inventory Value Report if all requirements in this endorsement and the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions are not met.
(d) You may purchase no more than one Peak Inventory Endorsement for each basic unit during the crop year unless you have suffered insured losses and have restocked your nursery, in which case an additional Peak Inventory Endorsement may be purchased after each insured loss.

# 3. Coverage
(a) The amount of insurance provided under the Nursery Crop Provisions for each basic unit is increased by the peak amount of insurance for such unit for the coverage term.
(b) Except as provided herein, this endorsement does not change, amend or otherwise modify any other provision of your Nursery Crop Insurance Policy.

# 4. Peak Insurance Period
Coverage begins on the coverage commencement date and ends at 11:59 p.m. on the coverage termination date.

# 5. Premium
(a) The premium for this endorsement is determined by multiplying the peak amount of insurance by the appropriate premium rate and by the peak inventory premium adjustment factor.

# Example of Peak Inventory Endorsement Total Premium Calculation
Assume a grower reports a peak amount of insurance on a basic unit of $100,000 with a 65 percent coverage level and a share of 1.000. The base premium rate is $0.051. The proration factors for the Peak Inventory Endorsement are 0.68 for the month that coverage commenced and 0.52 for the month following the month containing the coverage termination date, as stated in the actuarial documents. The peak premium adjustment factor is 0.16 (0.68 − 0.52). The total premium amount for the Peak Inventory Endorsement is $530.40 ($100,000 × 0.65 × 1.000 × $0.051 × 0.16).
(b) The premium for this endorsement is due and payable in accordance with section 7 of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions.

# 6. Reporting Requirements
In addition to the reporting requirements of section 6 of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions, you must submit a Peak Inventory Value Report on our form.

# 7. Liability Limit.
The peak amount of insurance is limited to 200 percent of the amount of insurance established under the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions.
[63 FR 50979, Sept. 24, 1998; 63 FR 57047, Oct. 26, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 36246, June 28, 2005; 71 FR 74456, Dec. 12, 2006]
§ 457.164
Nursery rehabilitation endorsement.

# Nursery Crop Insurance Rehabilitation Endorsement
If you elect this endorsement and pay the additional premium designated in the actuarial documents, this endorsement is attached to and made a part of your Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions subject to the terms and conditions herein. In the event of a conflict between the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions and this endorsement, this endorsement will control.

# 1. Eligibility
(a) You must have purchased additional coverage under the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions, and you must comply with all terms and conditions contained in the applicable Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions and endorsements.
(b) All field grown nursery plants insured under the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions must be insured under this endorsement. Nursery plants produced in standard nursery containers are not covered under this endorsement.
(c) You must elect this endorsement:
(1) At the time of application for the initial crop year your field grown nursery plants will be insured under the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions; or
(2) By October 1, 2005, for the 2006 crop year and by the sales closing date for each subsequent crop year if your field grown plants are already insured under the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions.

# 2. Coverage
(a) This endorsement is only applicable to field grown plants damaged by an insured cause of loss specified in section 10 of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions.
(b) Rehabilitation costs covered by this endorsement are limited to expenditures for labor and materials for pruning and setup (righting, propping, and staking).
(c) To be eligible for a rehabilitation payment:
(1) The damaged plants must have a reasonable expectation of recovery based on:
(i) The type of damage (e.g., broken limbs from high winds, trees uprooted by hurricane, etc.);
(ii) The extent of damage (e.g., twenty percent of the limbs broken, half the canopy removed, etc.); and
(iii) Whether the plant can recover to the point it is marketable;
(2) Verifiable records must be provided showing actual expenditures for rehabilitation and such expenditures must be reasonable and customary for the type and extent of damage sustained by the plants;
(3) Rehabilitation procedures must be performed directly following the occurrence of damage and before additional deterioration of the damaged plants occurs;
(4) We must determine it is practical to rehabilitate the damaged plants (It is not practical if the costs of rehabilitation are greater than the value of the plant); and
(5) The total actual rehabilitation costs for each loss occurrence on the basic unit must be at least the lesser of 2.0 percent of field market value A or $5,000.
(d) The maximum amount of each rehabilitation payment for each basic unit will be the lesser of:
(1) Your total actual rehabilitation costs multiplied by the under-report factor contained in the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions; or
(2) An amount equal to 7.5 percent of the value (based on insurable plant prices determined in accordance with section 6 of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions) of all your insurable field grown plants that were rehabilitated subsequent to an insured cause of loss, multiplied by the under-report factor described in the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions, multiplied by the coverage level percentage you elect, and multiplied by your share. Insurable, rehabilitated plants that have not recovered from damage that occurred prior to attachment of this endorsement will have a reduced value in accordance with section 6(h) of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions.
(e) The total of all rehabilitation payments for the crop year for the basic unit will not exceed 7.5 percent of the value (based on insurable plant prices determined in accordance with section 6 of the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions) of all your insurable field grown plants in such basic unit, multiplied by the under-report factor described in the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions, multiplied by the coverage level percentage you elect, and multiplied by your share.

# 3. Cancellation
This endorsement will continue in effect until canceled or coverage under the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions is cancelled or terminated. This endorsement may be canceled by you or us for any succeeding crop year by giving written notice to the other party on or before the cancellation date, contained in the Nursery Crop Insurance Provisions, preceding the crop year for which the cancellation of this endorsement is to be effective.
[70 FR 37247, June 28, 2005]
§ 457.165
Millet crop insurance provisions.
The Millet Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2017 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
Reinsured policies:

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Millet Crop Insurance Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Bushel.
Fifty pounds of millet, or any other quantity which is designated in the Special Provisions for that purpose.
Harvest.
Combining or threshing the millet for grain. A crop that is swathed prior to combining is not considered harvested.
Late planting period.
In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, the period that begins the day after the final planting date for the insured crop and ends 20 days after the final planting date.
Local market price.
The cash price for millet with a 50-pound test weight adjusted to zero percent foreign material content basis offered by buyers in the area in which you normally market the millet. Factors not associated with grading, including, but not limited to, moisture content, will not be considered.
Millet.
Proso millet produced for grain to be used primarily as bird and livestock feed.
Nurse crop (companion crop).
A crop planted into the same acreage as another crop, that is intended to be harvested separately, and that is planted to improve growing conditions for the crop with which it is grown.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, land on which seed is initially spread onto the soil surface by any method and is subsequently mechanically incorporated into the soil in a timely manner and at the proper depth. Acreage planted in any manner not contained in this definition will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions.
Swathed.
Severance of the stem and grain head from the ground without removal of the seed from the head and placing into a row.

# 2. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one price election for all the millet in the county insured under this policy.

# 3. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 4. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are March 15.

# 5. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the millet in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That is planted for harvest as grain;
(c) That is not planted as a nurse crop; and
(d) That is not (unless allowed by Special Provisions or written agreement):
(1) Interplanted with another crop; or
(2) Planted into an established grass or legume.

# 6. Insurable Acreage
In addition to section 9 of the Basic Provisions, any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that a majority of producers in the area would not normally further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.
7. Insurance Period.
In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the date immediately following planting (unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions) as follows:
(a) October 10 for North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming; and
(b) October 31 for all other states.

# 8. Causes of Loss
In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; or
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply due to a cause of loss specified in sections 8(a) through (g) that also occurs during the insurance period.

# 9. Duties In the Event of Damage or Loss
In accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the representative samples of the unharvested crop must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed.

# 10. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim on any unit by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by the production guarantee;
(2) Subtracting the total production to count (See section 10(c)) from the result of section 10(b)(1);
(3) Multiplying the result of section 10(b)(2) by your price election; and
(4) Multiplying the result of section 10(b)(3) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of millet in the unit, with a guarantee of 15 bushels per acre and a price election of $4.00 per bushel. You are only able to harvest 800 bushels. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 15 bushel = 1,500 bushel guarantee;
(2) 1,500 bushel guarantee − 800 bushel production to count = 700 bushel loss;
(3) 700 bushels × $4.00 price election = $2,800 loss; and
(4) $2,800 × 100 percent share = $2,800 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production (bushels) to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Your appraised production will not be less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) Damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide records of production that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with subsection 10(d));
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage you want to put to another use or you wish to abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end if you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us. (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(d) Mature millet may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. If moisture adjustment is applicable, it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality.
(1) Production will be reduced by .12 percent for each 0.1 percent point of moisture in excess of 12 percent. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if:
(i) Deficiencies in quality, result in the millet weighing less than 50 pounds per bushel; or
(ii) Substances or conditions are present that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health.
(3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss only if:
(i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these crop provisions and within the insurance period;
(ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions result in a net price for the damaged production that is less than the local market price;
(iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions are made using samples of the production obtained by us or by a disinterested third party approved by us; and
(iv) The samples are analyzed by a grader or by a laboratory approved by us with regard to substances or conditions injurious to human or animal health (test weight for quality adjustment purposes may be determined by our loss adjuster).
(4) Millet production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in sections 10(d)(2) and (3), will be reduced by the quality adjustment factor contained in the Special Provisions if quality adjustment factors are not available in the county, the eligible millet production will be reduced as follows:
(i) The market price of the qualifying damaged production and the local market price will be determined on the earlier of the date such quality adjusted production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit.
(ii) The price for the qualifying damaged production will be the market price for the local area to the extent feasible. Discounts used to establish the net price of the damaged production will be limited to those that are usual, customary, and reasonable. The price will not be reduced for:
(A) Moisture content;
(B) Damage due to uninsured causes; or
(C) Drying, handling, processing, or any other costs associated with normal harvesting, handling, and marketing of the millet; except, if the value of the damaged production can be increased by conditioning, we may reduce the value of the production after it has been conditioned by the cost of conditioning but not lower than the value of the production before conditioning. We may obtain prices from any buyer of our choice. If we obtain prices from one or more buyers located outside your local market area, we will reduce such prices by the additional costs required to deliver the millet to those buyers.
(iii) The value of the damaged or conditioned production determined in section 10(d)(4)(ii) will be divided by the local market price to determine the quality adjustment factor.
(iv) The number of bushels remaining after any reduction due to excessive moisture (the moisture-adjusted gross bushels, if appropriate) of the damaged or conditioned production under section 10(d)(1) will then be multiplied by the quality adjustment factor from section 10(d)(4)(iii) to determine the production to count.
(e) Any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on a weight basis.

# 11. Late Planting
In lieu of the provisions contained in section 16(a) of the Basic Provisions, the production guarantee for each acre planted to the insured crop during the late planting period, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions, will be reduced by:
(a) One percent per day for the first through the tenth day; and
(b) Three percent per day for the eleventh through the twentieth day.

# 12. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[67 FR 3037, Jan. 23, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 5925, Feb. 8, 2002; 72 FR 48229, Aug. 23, 2007; 81 FR 84401, Nov. 23, 2016]
§ 457.166
Blueberry crop insurance provisions.
The Blueberry Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2026 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Blueberry Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Blueberry Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
Damaged blueberries.
Blueberries ready to harvest that due to an insurable cause of loss as shown in section 8 of these Crop Provisions do not meet the United States Standards for Grades of Blueberries, U.S. No. 1, or such other applicable grading standards specified in the Special Provisions.
Harvest.
Picking mature blueberries from the bushes either by hand or machine.
Mature blueberry production.
Blueberries ready to harvest that meet or exceed the United States Standards for Grades of Blueberries, U.S. No. 1, or such other applicable grading standards contained in the Special Provisions.
Pound.
Sixteen ounces avoirdupois.
Production guarantee (per acre).
In accordance with the definition in the Basic Provisions, the production guarantee is number of pounds.
Prune.
A cultural practice performed to increase blueberry production as follows:
(1) For lowbush blueberries, a process by which the acreage is either burned or mowed; and
(2) For all other blueberries, a process by which parts of the bush are cut off or the bush is cut back.

# 2. Unit Division
The enterprise, whole-farm, and optional unit provisions in the Basic Provisions are not applicable, and blueberry acreage is limited to basic units as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election percentage for each blueberry type designated in the Special Provisions. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.
(b) You must report (by type, if applicable) by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) For all types of blueberries: any damage; removal of bushes; change in practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the insurance guarantee is based; and the number of affected acres; and
(2) For highbush and rabbiteye blueberry types:
(i) The number of bearing bushes on insurable and uninsurable acreage; and
(ii) The age of the bushes and the planting pattern.
(c) We will reduce the approved yield, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any circumstance listed in section 3(b) that may reduce your yields from previous levels. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your approved yield at any time we become aware of the circumstance. If the circumstance occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the circumstance was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss;
(2) After the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the approved yield is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Before or after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, an amount equal to the reduction in the approved yield will be added to the production to count calculated in section 10(c)(1)(ii) due to uninsured causes. We will reduce your approved yield for the subsequent crop year to reflect any reduction in the productive capacity of the bushes or in the yield potential of the insured acreage.
(d) You may not increase your elected or assigned coverage level or the ratio of your price election to the maximum price election we offer for the next year if a cause of loss that could or would reduce the yield of the insured crop is evident prior to the time you request the increase.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
(a) In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are November 20.
(b) If your blueberry policy is canceled or terminated by us for any crop year, in accordance with the terms of the policy, after insurance attached for that crop year but on or before the cancellation and termination dates whichever is later, insurance will be considered to have not attached for that crop year and no premium, administrative fee, or indemnity will be due for such crop year.
(c) We may not cancel your policy when an insured cause of loss has occurred after insurance attached, but prior to the cancellation date. However, your policy can be terminated if a cause for termination contained in sections 2 or 27 of the Basic Provisions exists.

# 6. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the blueberries in the county for which a premium rate is provided in the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are grown on bush varieties that:
(i) Were commercially available when the bushes were set out or have subsequently become commercially available; and
(ii) Are varieties adapted to the area of the following types:
(A) Highbush blueberries;
(B) Lowbush blueberries;
(C) Rabbiteye blueberries; or
(D) Other blueberry types listed on the Special Provisions.
(3) That are produced on bushes that have reached the minimum insurable age or have produced the minimum yield per acre designated in the Special Provisions; and
(4) That, if inspected, are considered acceptable by us.
(b) Lowbush blueberry plants (or other types as specified in the Special Provisions) must be pruned every other year to be eligible for insurance.

# 7. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) For the year of application, coverage begins on November 21 of the calendar year prior to the year the insured crop normally blooms, except that, if your application is received by us after November 1, insurance will attach on the twentieth day after your properly completed application is received in our local office unless we inspect the acreage during the 20-day period and determine that it does not meet insurability requirements. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the blueberry acreage.
(2) For each subsequent crop year that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior crop year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring an existing policy to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(3) The calendar date for the end of insurance period for each crop year is September 30 for Michigan and September 15 for all other states, unless specified otherwise in the Special Provisions.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions in this section, coverage may not begin for a crop year if the policy is cancelled or terminated in accordance with section 5(b).
(b) In addition to section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period. There will be no coverage of any insurable interest acquired after the acreage reporting date.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of blueberries on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity, or a similar form approved by us, is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.
(3) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of blueberries after the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance coverage will be provided for any loss due to an insurable cause of loss that occurred prior to the date that you relinquished your insurable share and the whole premium will be due for such acreage for that crop.

# 8. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the unit;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Volcanic eruption;
(7) An insufficient number of chilling hours to effectively break dormancy;
(8) Wildlife, unless appropriate control measures have not been taken; and
(9) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by a cause of loss specified in this section that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Failure to install and maintain a proper drainage system;
(2) Failure to harvest in a timely manner;
(3) Inability to market the blueberries for any reason other than actual physical damage to the blueberries from an insurable cause specified in this section (for example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production); or
(4) Mechanical damage.

# 9. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(a) You must notify us:
(1) Within 3 days of the date harvest should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(2) Within 24 hours if any cause of loss occurs:
(i) Within 15 days of harvest;
(ii) When the blueberries are mature and ready for harvest; or
(iii) During harvest.
(3) At least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested if any portion of your crop will be direct marketed. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals and acceptable records provided by you will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised amount of production to count that is not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(4) At least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit as a result of previously reported damage, so that we may inspect the damaged production.
(b) You must not sell or dispose of the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so. If you fail to meet the requirements of this section, and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.
(c) You may be required to harvest a sample, selected by us, to be used for appraisal purposes.

# 10. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide acceptable production records for any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type, if applicable, by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 10(b)(1) by the respective price election, by type if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results in section 10(b)(2) if there is more than one type;
(4) Multiplying the total production to count for each blueberry type, if applicable, by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 10(b)(4), if there is more than one type;
(6) Subtracting the result in section 10(b)(5) from the result in section 10(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 10(b)(6) by your share.

# Example for Section 10(b)
You have 100 percent share in 25 acres of highbush blueberries with a production guarantee of 4,000 pounds per acre and a price election of $0.85 per pound. You are only able to harvest 62,500 total pounds because adverse weather reduced the yield. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 25 acres × 4,000-pound production guarantee per acre = 100,000-pound total production guarantee;
(2) 100,000 pounds × $0.85 price election = $85,000 guarantee;
(3) Not applicable;
(4) 62,500-pound production to count × $0.85 price election = $53,125 value of production to count;
(5) Not applicable;
(6) $85,000−$53,125 = $31,875 loss; and
(7) $31,875 × 100 percent share = $31,875 indemnity payment.
End of Example.
(c) The total production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised blueberry production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 9;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes; and
(iii) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvest the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count.
(2) All harvested mature blueberry production from the insurable acreage.
(d) If you have harvested or unharvested damaged blueberries and the percent of damaged blueberries exceeds that shown in the Special Provisions for that type, production to count for the damaged unit or portion of a unit will be determined as follows:
(1) The blueberries from the specific acreage will not be considered production to count if no blueberries are harvested and sold from such acreage;
(2) For damaged blueberries that are harvested and sold, the production to count for such damaged blueberries will be determined by:
(i) Subtracting the harvest costs contained in the actuarial documents from the price received for the damaged blueberries;
(ii) Dividing the result in section 10(d)(2)(i) by the price election; and
(iii) Multiplying the resulting factor from section 10(d)(2)(ii), not less than zero, by the pounds of damaged blueberries;
(e) If you have harvested or unharvested damaged blueberries and the percent of damaged blueberries does not exceed that shown in the Special Provisions for that type, the production to count for the damaged unit or portion of a unit will be the appraised or harvested production of blueberries.
(f) If we determine that frost protection equipment, as shown on your accepted application, was not properly utilized, the indemnity for the affected acreage in the unit will be reduced by the percentage reduction allowed for frost protection equipment as specified in the Special Provisions. You must, at our request, provide us records by date for each period the frost protection equipment was used.

# 11. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions in the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[69 FR 52155, Aug. 25, 2004, as amended at 87 FR 38898, June 30, 2022; 89 FR 53845, June 27, 2024; 89 FR 93469, Nov. 27, 2024]
§ 457.167
Pecan revenue crop insurance provisions.
The Pecan Revenue Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2025 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Pecan Revenue Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these Pecan Revenue Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
AMS.
The Agricultural Marketing Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Amount of insurance per acre.
The amount determined by multiplying your approved average revenue per acre by the coverage level percentage you elect.
Approved average revenue per acre.
The total of your average gross sales per acre based on the most recent consecutive four years of sales records building to six years and dividing that result by the number of years of average gross sales per acre. If you provide more than four years of sales records, they must be the most recent consecutive six years of sales records. If you do not provide at least four years of gross sales records, your approved average revenue will be:
(1) The average of the two most recent consecutive years of your gross sales per acre and two years of the T-revenue; or
(2) If you do not provide any gross sales records, the T-revenue.
Average gross sales per acre.
Your gross sales of pecans for a crop year divided by your net acres of pecans grown during that crop year. For example, if for the crop year your gross sales were $100,000 and your net acres of pecans were 100, then your average gross sales per acre for the crop year would be $1,000.
Crop year.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the period beginning February 1 of the calendar year in which the pecan trees bloom and extending through January 31 of the year following such bloom, and will be designated by the calendar year in which the pecan trees bloom.
Direct marketing.
In addition to the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the sale of the insured crop directly to consumers without the intervention of an intermediary, including a sheller. An additional example of direct marketing includes shelling and packing your own pecans.
Gross sales.
Total value of in-shell pecans grown during a crop year.
Harvest.
Collecting mature pecans from the orchard.
Hedge.
The removal of vegetative growth from the tree to prevent overcrowding of pecan trees.
In-shell pecans.
Pecans as they are removed from the orchard with the nut-meats in the shell.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage on which two or more crops are planted in any form of alternating or mixed pattern.
Market price.
The market price is:
(1) The average of the AMS prices for the nearest location for similar quality, quantity, and variety of in-shell pecans published during the week you sell any of your pecans, you harvest your pecans if they are not sold, or your pecans are appraised if you are not harvesting them, unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions. For example, if you harvest production on November 14 but do not sell the production, the average of the AMS prices for the week containing November 14 will be used to determine the market price for the production harvested on November 14; or
(2) If AMS prices are not published for the week, the average price per pound for in-shell pecans of the same variety or varieties insured offered by buyers on the day you sell any of your pecans, you harvest any of your pecans if they are not sold, or your pecans are appraised if you are not harvesting them, in the area in which you normally market the pecans (If buyers are not available in your immediate area, we will use the average in-shell price per pound offered by buyers nearest to your area).
Net acres.
The insured acreage of pecans multiplied by your share.
Pound.
A unit of weight equal to sixteen ounces avoirdupois of in-shell pecans.
Scion
—Twig or portion of a pecan variety used in top work.
Sequentially thinned.
A method of systematically removing pecan trees for the purpose of improving sunlight penetration and maintaining the proper spacing necessary for continuous production.
Top work.
To graft scions of one pecan variety onto the tree or branch of another pecan variety.
Transitional revenue (T-revenue).
A value determined by FCIC and published in the actuarial documents.
Two-year coverage module.
A two-crop-year subset of a continuous policy in which you agree to insure the crop for both years of the module, and we agree to offer the same premium rate, amount of insurance per acre, coverage level, terms and conditions of insurance for each year of coverage except for legislatively mandated changes, as long as all policy terms and conditions are met for each year of the coverage module, including the timely payment of premium, and you have not done anything that would result in a revision to these terms, as specified in this policy.

# 2. Unit Division
Except as provided in these Crop Provisions, for both years of the two-year coverage module a unit will be:
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 34(a)(2) of the Basic Provisions, an enterprise unit if the insured crop is located on at least two parcels of non-contiguous land and at least two of the parcels must contain at least the lesser of 20 acres or 20 percent of the insured crop acreage in the enterprise unit;
(b) A basic unit as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions; or
(c) In lieu of the requirements in sections 34(b) and (c) of the Basic Provisions, basic units may be divided into optional units if, for each optional unit, the following criteria are met:
(1) Each optional unit you select must be located on non-contiguous land;
(2) Separate records of production are provided for at least the most recent consecutive two crop years. The records will be used to verify that trees from each unit meet the minimum production requirement contained in section 8(d) and to establish the approved average revenue per acre for the optional units selected; and
(3) Optional units are selected and identified on the acreage report by the acreage reporting date of the first year of the two-year coverage module. Units will be determined when the acreage is reported, but may be adjusted or combined to reflect the actual unit structure when adjusting a loss. No further unit division may be made after the acreage reporting date for any reason.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees and Coverage Levels
In lieu of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, the following applies:
(a) You may select only one coverage level for both years of the two-year coverage module for all pecans in the county. By giving us written notice, you may change the coverage level for the succeeding two-year coverage module not later than the sales closing date of the next two-year coverage module.
(b) For coverage in excess of catastrophic risk protection, your insurance guarantee
for the unit will be determined by multiplying your amount of insurance per acre by the net acres.
(c) For coverage under the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, your insurance guarantee for each unit equals your approved average revenue per acre multiplied by the percentage listed in the Special Provisions and multiplied by the net acres.
(d) Your amount of insurance per acre will remain the same as stated in the Summary of Coverage on each unit for each year of the two-year coverage module unless:
(1) You fail to provide acceptable records necessary to determine a loss for optional units. This will result in optional units being adjusted or combined to reflect the actual unit structure at the time of discovery. Your amount of insurance per acre will be recalculated for the current crop year and the subsequent crop year of the two-year coverage module (provided another year remains in the two-year coverage module).
(2) You increase the previous year's insured acreage by more than 12.5 percent, which will result in the recalculation of your approved average revenue using the sales records for the added acreage. If such sales records are not available for the added acreage, the T-revenue will apply to the added acreage.
(3) You take any other action that may reduce your gross sales below your approved average revenue, which will result in an adjustment to your approved average revenue to conform to the amount of the reduction in gross sales expected from the action.
(4) Your gross sales amount is assigned in accordance with section 3(f).
(e) If you remove a contiguous block of trees from the unit, you must report such removal on your acreage report in accordance with section 6, or within 3 days if removal has occurred after the acreage reporting date, and your insurable acreage will be reduced by the number of acres of trees that have been removed.
(f) You must report for each unit your gross sales including the amount of harvested and appraised potential production to us for each year of the two-year coverage module on or before the acreage reporting date for the first year of the next two-year coverage module.
(1) If you do not report your gross sales in accordance with this paragraph, we will assign a gross sales amount for any year you fail to report and you will not be eligible for optional units for both years of the two-year coverage module. The gross sales amount assigned by us will be not greater than the T-revenue for the current coverage module.
(2) If your gross sales are reported after the acreage reporting date for the two-year coverage module, we will readjust your average gross sales per acre for the next crop year.
(3) The gross sales or your assigned gross sales amount will be used to compute your sales history for the next two-year coverage module.
(4) If you filed a claim for any year, the value of harvested production and appraised potential production used to determine your indemnity payment will be the gross sales for that year.
(g) Hail and fire coverage may be excluded from the covered causes of loss for your insured crop only if you selected additional coverage of not less than 65 percent of your approved average revenue per acre, and you have purchased the same or a higher dollar amount of coverage for hail and fire from us or any other source.
(h) If you have additional coverage for pecans in the county and the acreage has been designated as “high-risk” by FCIC, you will be able to obtain a High-Risk Land Exclusion Option for the high-risk land under the additional coverage policy and insure the high-risk acreage under a separate Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, provided that the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement is obtained from the same insurance provider from which the additional coverage was obtained.
(i) Any person may sign any document related to pecan crop insurance coverage on behalf of any other person covered by this policy provided that person has a properly executed power of attorney or such other legally sufficient document authorizing such person to sign.

# 4. Contract Changes
In lieu of section 4 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) We may change the terms of your coverage under this policy for any two-year coverage module. Any change to your policy within a two-year coverage module may only be done in accordance with this policy.
(b) Any changes in policy provisions, amounts of insurance, premium rates, and program dates (except as allowed in your policy or as specified in section 3) can be viewed on RMA's website not later than the contract change date contained in these Crop Provisions. We may revise this information after the contract change date to correct clerical errors.
(c) The contract change date is October 31 preceding the next two-year coverage module.
(d) After the contract change date, all changes specified in section 4(b) will also be available upon request from your crop insurance agent. You will be provided, in writing, a copy of the changes to the Basic Provisions, Crop Provisions, and a copy of the Special Provisions. If changes are made that will be effective for the second year of the two-year coverage module, such copies will be provided not later than 30 days prior to the termination date. If changes are made
that will be effective for a subsequent two-year coverage module, such copies will be provided not later than 30 days prior to the cancellation date. If available from us, you may elect to receive these documents and changes electronically. For changes effective for subsequent two-year coverage modules, acceptance of the changes will be conclusively presumed in the absence of written notice from you to change or cancel your insurance coverage in accordance with the terms of this policy.

# 5. Life of Policy, Cancellation and Termination Dates
(a) In lieu of section 2(a) of the Basic Provisions, this is a continuous policy with a two-year coverage module and will remain in effect for each subsequent two-year coverage module until canceled by you in accordance with the terms of this policy or terminated by us or by the operation of the terms of this policy.
(b) In lieu of section 2(c) of the Basic Provisions, after acceptance of your application, you may not cancel or transfer your policy to a different insurance provider during the initial two-year coverage module. Thereafter, the policy will continue in force for each succeeding two-year coverage module unless canceled, terminated, or transferred to a different insurance provider in accordance with the terms of this policy.
(c) In lieu of section 2(d) of the Basic Provisions, this contract may be canceled by either you or us for the next two-year coverage module by giving written notice on or before the cancellation date.
(d) Your policy may be terminated before the end of the two-year coverage module if you are determined to be ineligible to participate in any crop insurance program authorized under the Act in accordance with section 2(e) of the Basic Provisions or 7 CFR part 400, subpart U.
(e) The cancellation date is January 31 of the second crop year of each two-year coverage module.
(f) The termination date is January 31 of each crop year.

# 6. Report of Acreage
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions you must report, by the acreage reporting date designated in the Special Provisions:
(1) Any damage to trees, removal of trees, change in practices, sequential thinning or any other action that may reduce the gross sales below the approved average revenue upon which the amount of insurance per acre is based and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of bearing trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees and the planting pattern;
(4) Any acreage that is excluded under sections 8 or 9; and
(5) Your gross sales receipts as required under section 3(f).
(b) We will reduce the amount of your insurable acreage based on our estimate of the removal of a contiguous block of trees or damage to trees of the insured crop. We will reduce your amount of insurance per acre based on our estimate of the expected reduction in gross sales from a change in practice or sequential thinning.
(c) We will reduce your insured acreage or your amount of insurance per acre, as necessary, based on our estimate of the effect of any circumstance listed in sections 6(a) and (b) that may reduce your gross sales from previous levels. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your gross sales from previous levels, we will reduce your insured acreage or your amount of insurance per acre at any time we become aware of the circumstance. If the circumstance occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the acreage reporting date, your insured acreage or amount of insurance per acre will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the circumstance was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss;
(2) After the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the acreage reporting date, your insured acreage or amount of insurance per acre will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in your gross sales is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Before or after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the acreage reporting date, an amount equal to the reduction in your gross sales will be added to the production to count calculated in section 13(d)(1)(ii) due to uninsured causes. We will reduce your insured acreage or amount of insurance per acre for the subsequent crop year to reflect any reduction in the productive capacity of the trees or in the gross sales potential of the insured acreage.

# 7. Annual Premium and Administrative Fees
In addition to the requirements of section 7 of the Basic Provisions, the premium and administrative fees, as applicable, are due annually for each year of the two-year insurance period.

# 8. Insured Crop
In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the pecans in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(a) In which you have a share;
(b) That are grown for harvest as pecans;
(c) That are grown in an orchard that, if inspected, is considered acceptable by us;
(d) That are grown on trees that have produced at least 600 pounds of pecans in-shell per acre (or an amount provided in the Special Provisions) in at least one of the previous four crop years, unless otherwise allowed by written agreement. This amount of production must be achieved subsequent to any top work that occurs within a unit;
(e) That are grown on varieties or a grouping of varieties within a unit that are not designated as uninsurable in the Special Provisions;
(f) That are in an orchard that consists of a minimum of one (1) contiguous acre, unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions; and
(g) That are not (unless otherwise allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement):
(1) Grown on trees that are or have been hedged; or
(2) Direct marketed to consumers.

# 9. Insurable Acreage
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, pecans interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable if allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement.

# 10. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) Coverage begins on February 1 of each crop year. However, for the year of application, we will inspect all pecan acreage and will notify you if your application was accepted or not accepted, no later than 30 days after the sales closing date. If we fail to notify you by that date, your application will be accepted unless other grounds exist to not accept the application, as specified in section 2 of the Basic Provisions. You must provide any information that we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the orchard.
(2) For each subsequent two-year coverage module that the policy remains continuously in force, coverage begins on the day immediately following the end of the insurance period for the prior two-year coverage module. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring an existing policy to a different insurance provider for a subsequent two-year coverage module will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(3) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period is January 31 of the crop year.
(b) In addition to section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage after coverage begins but on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, and after an inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period. Acreage acquired after the acreage reporting date will not be insured.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of pecans on or before the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, and no premium or indemnity will be due for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A request for a transfer of right to an indemnity is submitted by all affected parties and approved by us;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.
(3) If you relinquish your insurable share on any insurable acreage of pecans after the acreage reporting date for the crop year, insurance coverage will be provided for any loss due to an insurable cause of loss that occurred prior to the date that you relinquished your insurable share and the whole premium will be due for such acreage for that crop year.

# 11. Causes of Loss
(a) In lieu of the first sentence of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided against an unavoidable decline in revenue due to the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or unmulched pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption;
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by a cause of loss specified in sections 11(a)(1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period; or
(9) Decline in market price;
(b) If damage occurs before the beginning of the crop year, coverage is only provided if and to the extent the crop was insured the previous crop year;
(c) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to the inability to market the pecans for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we
will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(a) You must notify us within 3 days of the date harvest should have started if the crop will not be harvested.
(b) If the Special Provisions permit or you have a written agreement authorizing direct marketing, you must notify us at least 15 days before harvest begins if any production from any unit will be harvested for direct marketing. We will conduct an appraisal that will be used to determine your production to count for production that is sold by direct marketing. If damage occurs after this appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal. These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine the dollar value of your production to count. Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised dollar value of production to count that is not less than the amount of insurance per acre for the direct-marketed acreage if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(c) If you intend to claim an indemnity, you must notify us at least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest, or immediately if a loss occurs during harvest, so that we may inspect the damaged production.
(d) You must not sell, destroy or dispose of the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so.
(e) If you fail to meet the requirements of this section, and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count.
(f) You may be required to harvest a sample, selected by us, to be used for appraisal purposes.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) Indemnities will be calculated separately for each year in the two-year coverage module.
(b) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable records for any:
(1) Optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such records were not provided and this will be the unit structure the current crop year and the subsequent crop year of the two-year coverage module (provided another year remains in the two-year coverage module); or
(2) Basic unit, we will allocate commingled production or revenue to each basic unit in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(c) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the amount of insurance per acre by the net acres of the insured pecans;
(2) Subtracting the dollar value of the total production to count as determined in section 13(d) from the result of section 13(c)(1):
(i) For additional coverage, the total dollar value of the total production to count determined in accordance with section 13(d); or
(ii) For catastrophic risk protection coverage, the result of multiplying the total dollar value of the total production to count determined in accordance with section 13(d) by the catastrophic risk protection factor contained in the Special Provisions; and
(d) The dollar value of the total production to count from all insurable acreage will include:
(1) The value of all appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than your amount of insurance per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 12;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes;
(D) For which no sales records or unacceptable sales records are provided to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production;
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the value of production to count; and
(v) The market price will be used to value all appraised production in section 13(d)(1); and
(2) The value of all harvested production from the insurable acreage determined as follows:
(i) The dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of pounds of pecans sold by the price received for each day the pecans were sold. (If the price received is not verifiable by sales receipts or if the pecan
production was direct marketed, the market price will be used. Unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions, and excluding pecans sold under contract, the price received will be not less than 95 percent of the lowest AMS price for the nearest location for similar quality, quantity, and variety of in-shell pecans published during the week you sell your pecans. If AMS prices are not published for the week the pecans were sold, the price received will be not less than 95 percent of the lowest price per pound for in-shell pecans of the same variety or varieties insured offered by buyers in the area you normally market the pecans or the area nearest to you if prices are not available in your immediate area on the day you sell your pecans.);
(ii) Totaling the results of section 13(d)(2)(i), as applicable;
(iii) The dollar amount obtained by multiplying the number of pounds of pecans harvested, but not sold production, by the market price;
(iv) Totaling the result of section 13(d)(2)(iii), as applicable; and
(v) Totaling the results of section 13(d)(2)(ii) and (iv).
Pecan Revenue Example
Year
Acres
Average pounds per acre
Average gross sales per acre
4
100
750
$1,050
3
100
625
625
2
100
1,250
750
1
100
200
250
Total Average Gross Sales Per Acre = $2,675
The approved average revenue equals the total average gross sales per acre divided by the number of years ($2,675 ÷ 4 = $669).
The amount of insurance per acre equals the approved average revenue multiplied by the coverage level percent ($669 × 0.65 = $435).
Assume pecan trees in the unit experienced damage to blooms due to a late freeze causing low production. You produced, harvested, and sold 300 pounds per acre of pecans from 70 acres and received an actual price of $0.75 per pound. On the other 30 acres, the pecans suffered damage due to drought. You elected not to harvest the other 30 acres of pecans. The 30 acres were appraised at 100 pounds per acre and on the day of the appraisal the average AMS price was $0.65. The total dollar value of production to count is (300 pounds of pecans × 70 net acres × $0.75) + (100 pounds × 30 net acres × $0.65) = $15,750 + $1,950 = $17,700.
The indemnity would be:
The amount of insurance per acre multiplied by the net acres minus the dollar value of the total production to count equals the dollar amount of indemnity ($435 × 100 = $43,500.00 −$17,700.00 = $25,800).

# 14. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 15. Substitution of Yields
The substitution of yield provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 16. Written Agreements
Notwithstanding section 18 of the Basic Provisions, for counties with actuarial documents for pecans, you must have at least two years of production and gross sales records and for counties without actuarial documents, you must have at least four years of production and gross sales records to qualify for a written agreement.
[69 FR 52163, Aug. 25, 2004; 69 FR 54179, Sept. 7, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 63041, Oct. 29, 2004; 78 FR 13459, Feb. 28, 2013; 78 FR 33691, June 5, 2013; 87 FR 38898, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52854, Aug. 30, 2022; 89 FR 53846, June 27, 2024]
§ 457.168
Mustard crop insurance provisions.
The Mustard Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2017 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured policies:

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:
Mustard Crop Insurance Provisions.

# 1. Definitions
Base contract price.
The price per pound (U.S. dollars) stipulated in the processor contract (without regard to discounts or incentives) that will be used to determine your price election.
Harvest.
Combining or threshing for seed. A crop that is swathed prior to combining is not considered harvested.
Mustard.
A crop of the family
Cruciferae.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, mustard seed must be planted in rows. Acreage planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in buying and processing mustard, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing mustard required by the State in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process contracted mustard within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
A written agreement between the producer and a processor, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow mustard of the types specified in the Special Provisions and to deliver the production to the processor;
(b) The processor's commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processor contract; and
(c) A base contract price (U.S. dollars).
Salvage price.
The cash price per pound (U.S. dollars) for mustard qualifying for quality adjustment in accordance with section 13 of these Crop Provisions.
Swathed.
Severance of the stem and seed pods from the ground and placing into windrows without removal of the seed from the pod.
Type.
A category of mustard identified as a type in the Special Provisions.
Windrow.
Mustard that is swathed and placed in a row.

# 2. Unit Division
In addition to the requirements of section 34 of the Basic Provisions, optional units may also be established by type, if types are designated on the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may select only one base contract price percentage for all the mustard in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions allow different base contract prices by type.
(b) If base contract prices are allowed by type, you can select one base contract price for each type designated in the Special Provisions. The base contract prices you choose must have the same percentage relationship to the base contract price (maximum price) offered for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price for a specific type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price for all other types.
(c) If there are multiple base contract prices within the same unit, each will be considered a separate price election that will be multiplied by the number of insurable acres under applicable processor contract. These amounts will be totaled to determine the premium, liability, and indemnity for the unit.
(d) To determine the total production guarantee, apply the lesser of the:
(1) Contracted acres multiplied by the production guarantee (per acre);
(2) Planted acres multiplied by the production guarantee (per acre);
(3) Total production stated in the contract; or
(4) For acreage and production contracts only, the contracted acres multiplied by the contracted production (per acre).

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are March 15.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the provisions in section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must provide a copy of all processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all mustard in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial table:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That is planted for harvest as seed;
(3) That is grown under, and in accordance with, the requirements of a processor contract executed on or before the acreage reporting date and is not excluded from the processor contract at any time during the crop year; and
(4) That is not, unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement:
(i) Interplanted with another crop; or
(ii) Planted into an established grass or legume; or
(iii) Planted following the harvest of any other crop in the same crop year.
(b) You will be considered to have a share in the insured crop if, under the processor contract, you retain control of the acres on which the mustard is grown, your income from the insured crop is dependent on the amount of production delivered, and the processor contract provides for delivery of the mustard under specified conditions and at a stipulated base contract price.
(c) A commercial mustard producer who is also a processor may establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors or officers of the processor must execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as an acceptable processor contract. Such resolution will be considered a processor contract under this policy; and
(3) Our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of a processor contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Any acreage of the insured crop that is damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that a majority of producers in the area would not normally further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.
(b) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements, if applicable, contained in the Special Provisions.
(c) Insurable acreage will be:
(1) For acreage only based processor contracts and acreage and production based processor contracts which specify a maximum number of acres, the lesser of:
(i) The planted acres; or
(ii) The maximum number of acres specified in the contract;
(2) For production only based processor contracts, the lesser of:
(i) The number of acres determined by dividing the production stated in the processor contract by the approved yield; or
(ii) The planted acres.

# 9. Insurance Period
In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the end of the insurance period is October 31 of the calendar year in which the crop is normally harvested unless otherwise stated in the Special Provisions.

# 10. Causes of Loss
In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss which occur during the insurance period:
(a) Adverse weather conditions;
(b) Fire;
(c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(e) Wildlife;
(f) Earthquake;
(g) Volcanic eruption; and
(h) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if applicable, caused by a cause of loss specified in section 10(a) through (g) that occurs during the insurance period.

# 11. Replanting Payment
(a) In accordance with section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if the insured crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage, and it is practical to replant or we require you to replant in accordance with section 8(a).
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 20 percent of the production guarantee (per acre) or 175 pounds, multiplied by the base contract price applicable to the acreage to be replanted, multiplied by your insured share.
(c) When the mustard is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable as an original planting, the liability for the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment that is attributable to your share. The premium amount will not be reduced.

# 12. Duties In The Event of Damage or Loss
In accordance with the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the representative samples of the unharvested crop that we may require must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. The samples must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis.
(1) In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(i) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable production records were not provided; or
(ii) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(2) For any processor contract that stipulates only the amount of production to be delivered, and not withstanding the provisions of this section or any unit division provisions contained in the Basic Provisions, no indemnity will be paid for any loss of production on any unit if the insured produced a
crop sufficient to fulfill the processor contract(s) forming the basis of the insurance guarantee
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insurable acreage of each type, if applicable, determined in accordance with section 8(c), by its respective production guarantee (per acre);
(2) Multiplying each result in section 13(b)(1) by the respective base contract price for each type, if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results in section 13(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the production to be counted for each type, if applicable (see section 13(c), by its respective base contract price (If you have multiple processor contracts with varying base contract prices within the same unit, we will value your production to count by using your highest base contract price first and will continue in decreasing order to your lowest base contract price based on the amount of production insured at each base contract price);
(5) Totaling the results in section 13(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the total in section 13(b)(5) from the total in section 13(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 13(b)(6) by your share.
Example # 1 (with one base contract price for the unit):
You have 100 percent share in 20 acres of mustard in a unit with a 650-pound production guarantee (per acre) and a base contract price of $0.15 per pound. Due to insurable causes, you are only able to harvest 10,000 pounds and there is no appraised production. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 20 acres × 650 pounds = 13,000 pound production guarantee;
(2) 13,000 pounds × $0.15 base contract price = $1,950 value of guarantee;
(3) $1,950 total value of guarantee;
(4) 10,000 pounds × $0.15 base contract price = $1,500 value of production to count;
(5) $1,500 total value of production to count;
(6) $1,950−$1,500 = $450 loss; and
(7) $450 × 100 percent = $450 indemnity payment.
Example # 2 (with two base contract prices for the same unit):
You have 100 percent share in 20 acres of mustard in a unit with a 650-pound production guarantee (per acre), 10 acres with a base contract price of $0.15 per pound, and 10 acres with a base contract price of $0.10 per pound. Due to insurable causes, you are only able to harvest 8,500 pounds and there is no appraised production. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 10 acres × 650 pounds = 6,500-pound production guarantee × $0.15 base contract price = $975 value guarantee;
(2) 10 acres × 650 pounds = 6,500-pound production guarantee × $0.10 base contract price = $650 value guarantee;
(3) $975 + $650 = $1,625 total value guarantee;
(4) 6,500 pounds of production to count × $0.15 base contract price (higher base contract price) = $975 value of production to count;
(5) 2,000 pounds of production to count × $0.10 base contract price (lower base contract price) = $200 value of production to count;
(6) $975 + $200 = $1,175 total value of production to count;
(7) $1,625 total value guarantee—$1,175 total value of production to count = $450 loss; and
(8) $450 × 100 percent = $450 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage in the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee (per acre) for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide acceptable production records;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with section 13(d)); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count.); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production,
or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested;
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage; and
(3) Any other uninsurable mustard production that is delivered to fulfill the processor contract.
(d) Mature mustard may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. If moisture adjustment is applicable, it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality.
(1) Mustard production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of 10.0 percent. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content.
(2) Mustard production will be eligible for quality adjustment only if:
(i) Deficiencies in quality result in the mustard not meeting the requirements for acceptance under the processor contract because of damaged seeds (excluding heat damage), or a musty, sour, or commercially objectionable foreign odor; or
(ii) Substances or conditions are present that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health.
(3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss in mustard production only if:
(i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions specified in section 13(d)(2) resulted from a cause of loss specified in section 10 that occurs within the insurance period; and
(ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions specified in section 13(d)(2) result in a salvage price less than the base contract price; and
(iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions specified in section 13(d)(2) are made using samples of the production obtained by us, by the processor identified in the processor contract for the insured acreage, or by a disinterested third party approved by us; and
(iv) The samples are analyzed by a grader in accordance with the Directive for Inspection of Mustard Seed, provided by the Federal Grain Inspection Service or such other directive or standards that may be issued by FCIC.
(4) Mustard production that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in sections 13(d)(2) and (3), will be reduced by multiplying the quality adjustment factors contained in the Special Provisions (if quality adjustment factors are not contained in the Special Provisions, the quality adjustment factor is determined by dividing the salvage price by the base contract price (not to exceed 1.000)) by the number of pounds remaining after any reduction due to excessive moisture (the moisture-adjusted gross pounds) of the damaged or conditioned production.
(i) The salvage price will be determined at the earlier of the date such quality adjusted production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit subject to the following conditions:
(A) Discounts used to establish the salvage price will be limited to those that are usual, customary, and reasonable.
(B) The salvage price will not include any reductions for:
(1) Moisture content;
(2) Damage due to uninsured causes;
(3) Drying, handling, processing, or any other costs associated with normal harvesting, handling, and marketing of the mustard; except, if the salvage price can be increased by conditioning, we may reduce the salvage price, after the production has been conditioned, by the cost of conditioning but not lower than the salvage price before conditioning; and
(ii) We may obtain salvage prices from any buyer of our choice. If we obtain salvage prices from one or more buyers located outside your local market area, we will reduce such price by the additional costs required to deliver the mustard to those buyers.
(iii) Factors not associated with grading under the Directive for Inspection of Mustard Seed, provided by the Federal Grain Inspection Service or such other directive or standards that may be issued by FCIC including, but not limited to, protein and oil will not be considered.
(e) Any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on an unadjusted weight basis.

# 14. Late Planting
In lieu of section 16(a) of the Basic Provisions, the production guarantee (per acre) for each acre planted to the insured crop during the late planting period will be reduced by 1 percent per day for each day planted after the final planting date, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.

# 15. Prevented Planting
Your prevented planting coverage will be a percentage specified in the actuarial documents of your production guarantee for timely planted acreage. When a portion of the insurable acreage within the unit is prevented from being planted, and there is more than one base contract price applicable to acreage in the unit, the lowest base contract price will be used in calculating any prevented planting payment. If you have additional levels of coverage and pay an additional premium, you may increase your prevented planting coverage if such additional coverage is specified in the actuarial documents.
[73 FR 11320, Mar. 3, 2008; 73 FR 17243, Apr. 1, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 84401, Nov. 23, 2016]
§ 457.169
Mint crop insurance provisions.
The Mint Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2008 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Reinsured policies:

# (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:
Mint Crop Insurance Provisions

# 1. Definitions
Adequate Stand.
A population of live mint plants that equals or exceeds the minimum required number of plants or percentage of ground cover, as specified in the Special Provisions.
Appraisal.
A method of determining potential production by harvesting and distilling a representative sample of the mint crop.
Cover crop.
A small grain crop seeded into mint acreage to reduce soil erosion and wind damage.
Cutting.
Severance of the upper part of the mint plant from its stalk and roots.
Distillation.
A process of extracting mint oil from harvested mint plants by heating and condensing.
Existing mint.
Mint planted for harvest during a previous crop year.
Ground cover.
Mint plants, including mint foliage and stolons, grown on insured acreage.
Harvest.
Removal of mint from the windrow.
Mint.
A perennial spearmint or peppermint plant of the family Labiatae and the genus
Mentha
grown for distillation of mint oil.
Mint oil.
Oil produced by the distillation of harvested mint plants.
New mint.
Mint planted for harvest for the first time.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition in the Basic Provisions, land in which mint stolons have been placed in a manner appropriate for the planting method and at the correct depth into a seedbed that has been properly prepared.
Pound.
16 ounces avoirdupois.
Sales closing date.
In lieu of the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, if you select the Winter Coverage Option, application for the Winter Coverage Option will include application for the spring insurance period and must be submitted by the sales closing date for the Winter Coverage Option contained in the Special Provisions. Coverage may not be changed between the end of the Winter Coverage Option insurance period and the beginning of the spring insurance period. If you do not elect the Winter Coverage Option, application must be made by the spring sales closing date contained in the Special Provisions and all policy changes must be made by that date. If you later elect the Winter Coverage Option, you may select your coverage under the Winter Coverage Option.
Stolon.
A stem at or just below the surface of the ground that produces new mint plants at its tips or nodes.
Type.
A category of mint identified as a type in the Special Provisions.
Windrow.
Mint that is cut and placed in a row.

# 2. Unit Division
A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will be divided into additional basic units by each mint type designated in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may only select one price election for all the mint in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may only select one price election for each type designated in the actuarial documents. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one specific type, you must also choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for other types.
(b) In addition to the provisions in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you must report:
(1) The total amount of mint oil produced from insurable acreage for all cuttings for each unit;
(2) Any damage to or removal of mint plants or stolons; any change in practices; or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield below the yield upon which the production guarantee is based, and the number of affected acres;
(3) The stand age;
(4) The date existing mint acreage was planted;
(5) The date new mint acreage was initially planted; and
(6) The type of mint.
(c) If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields or insurable acres from previous levels, we will reduce your production guarantee and insurable acres at any time we become aware of the circumstance based on our estimate of the effect of damage to or removal of mint
plants or stolons; stand age; change in practices; and any other circumstance that may affect the yield potential or insurable acres of the insured crop.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is June 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation date is September 30 and the termination date is November 30. If your policy is terminated after insurance has attached for the subsequent crop year, coverage will be deemed not to have attached to the acreage for the subsequent crop year.

# 6. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all mint types in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are planted for harvest and distillation for mint oil;
(3) That have an adequate stand by the date coverage begins; and
(4) That have been:
(i) Inspected and accepted by us for the first crop year you are insured; or
(ii) Certified by you as having an adequate stand on the date coverage begins after the first crop year you are insured unless an inspection is required under section 8(b).
(b) In lieu of the provisions of section 8 of the Basic Provisions that prohibit insurance of a second crop harvested following the same crop in the same crop year, multiple harvests of mint on the same acreage will be considered as one mint crop.
(c) In addition to the coverages provided in these Crop Provisions, you may also elect the Winter Coverage Option in accordance with section 13.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
(a) Mint interplanted with a cover crop will not be considered interplanted for the purposes of section 9 of the Basic Provisions if the cover crop is destroyed prior to its maturity and is not harvested as grain.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions, unless allowed by written agreement, we will not insure any acreage that:
(1) Does not meet rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions; or
(2) Exceeds existing mint age limitations contained in the Special Provisions.

# 8. Insurance Period
In lieu of the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) Coverage begins on each unit or part of a unit for acreage with an adequate stand on the following calendar dates:
(1) June 16 in Indiana, Montana, and Wisconsin;
(2) May 16 in Washington; and
(3) For all other states, the date as provided in the Special Provisions.
(b) For the year of application, for when you have reported planting mint during the Winter Coverage Option insurance period, or for any insurance period following the payment of an indemnity or a reported loss where the crop was determined to not have an adequate stand, we will inspect all mint acreage within the two-week period before coverage begins (If you have elected the Winter Coverage Option, such inspection will occur not later than November 15).
(1) Insurance will attach on the date coverage begins, as specified in section 8(a), unless we inspect the acreage during the two-week period and determine it does not meet insurability requirements as specified in section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the application, or these Crop Provisions.
(2) You must provide any information we require for the crop or to determine the condition of the crop.
(c) Coverage ends for each unit or part of a unit at the earliest of:
(1) Total destruction of the insured crop on the unit;
(2) Final adjustment of a loss;
(3) The final cutting for the crop year;
(4) Abandonment of the crop; or
(5) The following calendar date:
(i) September 30 in Indiana and Wisconsin;
(ii) October 15 in Montana;
(iii) October 31 in Washington; and
(iv) For all other states, the date as provided in the Special Provisions.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects or plant disease (except Verticillium Wilt disease), but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of control measures;
(4) Wildlife;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Volcanic eruption; or
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by an insured cause of loss listed in sections 9(a)(1) through (6) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any loss of production that:
(1) Occurs after harvest;
(2) Is due to your failure to distill the crop, unless such failure is due to actual physical damage to the crop caused by an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period; or
(3) Is due to Verticillium Wilt disease.

# 10. Duties In The Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to your duties contained in section 14 of the Basic Provisions, if you discover that any insured mint is damaged, or if you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit:
(a) You must give us notice of probable loss at least 15 days before the beginning of any cutting or immediately if probable loss is discovered after cutting has begun or when cutting should have begun; and
(b) You must timely harvest and completely distill a sample of the crop on any acreage you do not intend to harvest, as designated by us, to determine if an indemnity is due.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate, acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(b) We may defer appraisals until the crop reaches maturity or the date mint harvest is general in the area.
(c) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type, if applicable, by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying the result of section 11(c)(1) by the respective price election for each type, if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results of section 11(c)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted (see section 11(d)) of each type, if applicable, by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 11(c)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result in section 11(c)(5) from the result of section 11(c)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 11(c)(6) by your share.
For example:
Assume that you have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of peppermint in the unit, with a production guarantee of 50 pounds of oil per acre and a price election of $12 per pound. Because an insured cause of loss has reduced production, you only harvest and distill 2,500 pounds of peppermint oil. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 50 pounds = 5,000 pound production guarantee;
(2) 5,000 pound production guarantee × $12 price election = $60,000 value of production guarantee;
(3) 2,500 pounds production to count × $12 price election = $30,000 value of production to count;
(4) $60,000 − $30,000 = $30,000 loss; and
(5) $30,000 × 100 percent share = $30,000 indemnity payment.
(d) The total production to count (in pounds of oil) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) For which you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 10 of these Crop Provisions;
(D) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(E) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) All production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) All unharvested production;
(iv) All potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon with our consent:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you our consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact and provide sufficient care for representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, the amount of production to count will be not less than the production guarantee per acre); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or the appraised production at the time the crop reaches maturity.
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(e) Harvested production must be distilled to determine production to count.
(f) Any oil distilled from plants growing in the mint will be counted as mint oil on a weight basis.
(g) You are responsible for the cost of distilling samples for loss adjustment purposes.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 13. Winter Coverage Option
(a) The provisions of this option are continuous and will be attached to and made part of your insurance policy if:
(1) You elect the Winter Coverage Option on your application, or on a form approved by us, on or before the fall sales closing date for the crop year in which you wish to insure mint under this option, and pay the additional premium indicated in the actuarial documents for this optional coverage; and
(2) You have not elected coverage under the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement.
(b) This option provides a production guarantee equal to 60 percent of the production guarantee determined under section 3 of these Crop Provisions.
(c) If you elect this option, all of the insurable acreage in the county will be insured by this option.
(d) In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, any acreage of new mint planted after the applicable acreage reporting date must be certified by you and reported to us within two weeks of planting.
(e) In lieu of section 6(a) of these Crop Provisions, the crop insured will be all mint types in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are planted for harvest and distillation as mint oil;
(3) That have an adequate stand on the date coverage begins (newly planted mint types must be reported in accordance with section 8(b) but they must be reported as uninsured unless they have an adequate stand by the date coverage begins); and
(4) That has been:
(i) Inspected and accepted by us for the first crop year you are insured (We will inspect all mint acreage and will notify you of the acceptance or rejection of your application not later than November 15. If we fail to notify you by that date, your application will be accepted unless other grounds exist to reject the application, as specified in the Basic Provisions, the application, or these Crop Provisions);
(ii) Inspected and accepted by us not later than November 15 for the crop year following the payment of an indemnity or a reported loss unless the crop was determined to have an adequate stand (If we determined there was an adequate stand after the loss was reported, no inspection is necessary); or
(iii) Certified by you as having an adequate stand on the date coverage begins unless an inspection is required under section 13(e)(4)(ii).
(f) Coverage under this option begins:
(1) On existing mint acreage with an adequate stand at 12:01 a.m. on the calendar date listed below:
(i) October 1 in Indiana and Wisconsin;
(ii) October 16 in Montana;
(iii) November 1 in Washington; and
(iv) For all other states, the date as provided in the Special Provisions.
(2) On new mint acreage, that has an adequate stand by the date coverage begins as specified in section 13(f)(1).
(g) Coverage under this option ends on the unit or part of the unit at 11:59 p.m. on the calendar date listed below:
(1) June 15 in Indiana, Montana, and Wisconsin;
(2) May 15 in Washington; and
(3) For all other states, the date as provided in the Special Provisions.
(h) In lieu of section 10(a) of these Crop Provisions, you must give notice of probable loss within 72 hours after you discover any insured mint is damaged and does not have an adequate stand, but no later than the date coverage ends for this option.
(i) In addition to the requirements of section 10 of these Crop Provisions, you must give us notice if you want our consent to put any mint acreage to another use before a determination can be made if there is an adequate stand on the acreage. We will inspect the acreage and you must agree in writing no payment or indemnity will be made for the acreage put to another use. The total production to be counted for acreage put to another use with our consent in accordance with this section will not be less than the approved yield.
(j) In addition to section 11(a) of these Crop Provisions we will make a Winter Coverage Option payment only on acreage that had an adequate stand on the date that insurance attached if the adequate stand was lost due to an insured cause of loss occurring within the Winter Coverage Option insurance period and the acreage consists of at least 20 acres or 20 percent of the insurable planted acres in the unit.
(k) In lieu of section 11(b) of these Crop Provisions, we may defer appraisals until the date coverage ends under this option.
(l) In lieu of section 11(c) of these Crop Provisions, in the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying 60 percent by your production guarantee per acre;
(2) Multiplying the result in section 13(l)(1) by the number of acres that do not have an adequate stand;
(3) Multiplying the result in section 13(l)(2) by the price election; and
(4) Multiplying the result in section 13(l)(3) by your share.
For example:
Assume that you have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of mint with a production guarantee of 50 pounds of oil per acre and a price election of $12 per pound. Also assume that you do not have an adequate stand on 50 acres by the date coverage ends for this option because an insured cause has damaged the stand. Your Winter Coverage Option payment would be calculated as follows:
(1) 60 percent × 50 pound production guarantee = 30 pound production guarantee per acre;
(2) 30 pound production guarantee per acre × 50 acres without an adequate stand = 1,500 pounds;
(3) 1,500 pounds × $12 price election = $18,000; and
(4) $18,000 × 100 percent share = $18,000 Winter Coverage Option payment.
(m) In lieu of section 11(d) of these Crop Provisions, the population of live mint plants to be counted from insurable acreage on the unit will be not less than the population of live mint plants in an adequate stand for acreage:
(1) That is abandoned;
(2) That is put to another use without our consent;
(3) For which you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 13(h); or
(4) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes.
(n) Acreage for which a Winter Coverage Option payment has been made is no longer insurable under the Crop Provisions for the current crop year. Any mint production subsequently harvested from uninsured acreage for the crop year and not kept separate from production from insured acreage will be considered production to count.
(o) Acreage for which a Winter Coverage Option payment has been made will receive an amount of production of zero when computing subsequent year's approved yield.
(p) Sections 11(e), (f), and (g) of these Crop Provisions do not apply to this option.
[72 FR 24527, May 3, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 29055, May 24, 2007]
§ 457.170
Cultivated wild rice crop insurance provisions.
The Cultivated Wild Rice Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2009 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:
United States Department of Agriculture, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.
Reinsured policies:
(Appropriate title for insurance provider).
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:
Cultivated Wild Rice Crop Provisions.

# 1. Definitions
Approved laboratory.
A testing facility approved by us to determine the recovery percentage from samples of cultivated wild rice.
Cultivated Wild Rice.
A member of the grass family Zizania Palustris L., adapted for growing in man-made flood irrigated fields known as paddies.
Finished weight.
(a) The green weight delivered to a processor multiplied by the determined recovery percentage;
(b) The green weight stored for seed multiplied by either the determined recovery percentage or the standard recovery percentage in accordance with section 11(d); or
(c) The appraised green weight multiplied by either the determined recovery percentage or the standard recovery percentage in accordance with section 11(d).
Flood irrigation.
Intentionally covering the planted acreage with water and maintaining it at a proper depth throughout the growing season.
Green weight.
The total weight in pounds of the green cultivated wild rice production that was appraised, delivered to a processor, or stored for seed.
Harvest.
Combining or threshing the cultivated wild rice for grain or seed.
Initially planted.
The first occurrence of planting the insured crop on insurable acreage for the crop year.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in the Basic Provisions, land on which an adequate amount of seed is initially spread onto the soil surface by any appropriate method (including shattering for the second and succeeding years) and subsequently is mechanically incorporated into the soil at the proper depth, will be considered planted, unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or actuarial documents.
Processor.
A business that converts green weight to a product ready for commercial sale using appropriate equipment and methods such as separating immature kernels, fermenting or curing, parching, de-hulling, and scarifying.
Recovery percentage.
The ratio of finished weight to green weight of the cultivated wild rice. As specified in section 11(d), the recovery percentage is either:
(a) The determined recovery percentage for a sample as determined by an approved laboratory; or
(b) The standard recovery percentage provided in the Special Provisions.
Shatter.
The act of mature seeds naturally falling to the ground from a cultivated wild rice plant.

# 2. Unit Division
Provisions in the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantee, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one percentage of the maximum price election for all the cultivated wild rice insured under this policy in the county.
(b) The insurance guarantee per acre is expressed as pounds of finished weight.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is:
(a) November 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a February 28 cancellation date; and
(b) June 30 preceding the cancellation date for counties with a September 30 cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State
Cancellation date
Termination
date
Mendocino, Glenn, Butte, and Sierra Counties, California; and all California Counties south thereof
February 28
February 28.
Minnesota; All Other California Counties; and All Other States
September 30
November 30.

# 6. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the cultivated wild rice in the county grown on insurable acreage for which premium rates are provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That is planted for harvest as grain; and
(3) That is grown in man-made flood irrigated fields.
(b) Section 8(b)(3) of the Basic Provisions is not applicable to the cultivated wild rice seed that naturally shatters and is subsequently mechanically incorporated into the soil.

# 7. Insurance Period
In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is:
(a) For Minnesota, September 30 of the calendar year the crop is normally harvested;
(b) For California, October 15 of the calendar year the crop is normally harvested; and
(c) For all other states, the date provided in the Special Provisions.

# 8. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures;
(4) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures;
(5) Wildlife;
(6) Earthquake;
(7) Volcanic eruption; or
(8) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by a cause of loss specified in sections 8(a)(1) through (7) that occurs during the insurance period, drought, or the intrusion of saline water.
(b) In addition to the causes not insured against in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against any loss of production due to:
(1) The crop not being timely harvested unless such delay in harvesting is solely and directly due to adverse weather conditions which preclude harvesting equipment from entering and moving about the field; or
(2) The application of saline water, except as specified in section 8(a) of these crop provisions.

# 9. Replanting Payments
The provisions of section 13 of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
Representative samples are required in accordance with section 14 of the Basic Provisions.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production that are acceptable to us for any:
(1) Optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) Basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying the result in section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election;
(3) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted, (see section 11(c) through (d)) by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results of section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result of section 11(b)(5) from the result of section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result of section 11(b)(6) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 100 acres of cultivated wild rice in the unit, with a guarantee of 400 pounds per acre and a price election of $1.00 per pound. You are only able to harvest 20,000 pounds. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 100 acres × 400 pounds = 40,000 pound guarantee;
(2) 40,000 pounds × $1.00 per pound price election = $40,000 value of guarantee;
(3) 20,000 pounds × $1.00 per pound price election = $20,000 value of production to count;
(4) $40,000 − $20,000 = $20,000 loss; and
(5) $20,000 × 100 percent share = $20,000 indemnity payment.
(c) The total production to count (finished weight) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) Put to another use without our consent;
(C) Damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide records of production that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested green weight production must be adjusted in accordance with section 11(d)); and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(d) Mature green weight will be multiplied by the recovery percentage subject to the following:
(1) We may obtain samples of the production to determine the recovery percentage.
(2) The determined recovery percentage will be used to calculate your loss only if:
(i) All determined recovery percentages are established using samples of green weight production obtained by us or by the processor for sold or processed production; and
(ii) The samples are analyzed by an approved laboratory.
(3) If the conditions of section 11(d)(2) are not met, the standard recovery percentage will be used.

# 12. Late Planting
The provisions of section 16 of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 13. Prevented Planting
The provisions of section 17 of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[73 FR 11316, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 457.171
Cabbage crop insurance provisions.
The Cabbage Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of November 30, and for the 2024 and succeeding crop years in counties with a contract change date of April 30, are as follows:
FCIC policies: United States Department of Agriculture, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.
Reinsured policies: (Appropriate title for insurance provider).
Both FCIC and reinsured policies: Cabbage Crop Insurance Provisions.

# 1. Definitions
Cabbage.
Plants of the family Brassicaceae and the genus Brassica, grown for their compact heads and used for human consumption.
Crop year.
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, a period of time that begins on the first day of the earliest planting period and continues through the last day of the insurance period for the latest planting period. The crop year is designated by the calendar year in which the cabbage planted in the latest planting period is normally harvested.
Damaged cabbage production.
Fresh market cabbage that fails to grade U.S. Commercial or better in accordance with the United States Standards for Grades of Cabbage, or processing cabbage that fails to grade U.S. No. 2 or better in accordance with the United States Standards for Grades of Cabbage for Processing due to an insurable cause of loss.
Harvest.
Cutting of the cabbage plant to sever the head from the stalk.
Hundredweight.
One hundred pounds avoirdupois.
Inspected transplants.
Cabbage plants that have been found to meet the standards of the public agency responsible for the inspection process within the State in which they are grown.
Marketable cabbage.
Cabbage that is sold or grades at least:
(a) U.S. Commercial for fresh market cabbage; or
(b) U.S. No. 2 for processing cabbage.
Planted acreage.
In addition to the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, cabbage plants and seeds must initially be planted in rows wide enough to permit mechanical cultivation. Cabbage planted or seeds planted in any other manner will not be insurable unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions, actuarial documents, or by written agreement.
Processor.
Any business enterprise regularly engaged in processing cabbage for human consumption, that possesses all licenses and permits for processing cabbage required by the State in which it operates, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities, with enough equipment to accept and process the contracted cabbage within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Processor contract.
A written contract between the producer and the processor, containing at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant and grow cabbage, and to sell and deliver the cabbage production to the processor;
(b) The processor's commitment to purchase all the production stated in the processor contract; and
(c) A price per hundredweight that will be paid for the production.
Timely planted.
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, cabbage planted during a planting period designated in the Special Provisions.
Type.
A category of cabbage as designated in the Special Provisions.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) A basic unit, as defined in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, will also be divided into additional basic units by planting period if separate planting periods are designated in the Special Provisions.
(b) In addition to the requirements of section 34 of the Basic Provisions, optional units may also be established by type if separate types are designated in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one price election for all the cabbage in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each cabbage type designated in the actuarial documents.
(b) The price elections you choose for each type must bear the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for each type. For example, if you selected 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must also select 100 percent of the maximum price election for all other types.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with the provisions of section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change dates are the following calendar dates preceding the cancellation dates:
(a) April 30 in Florida; Georgia; and Texas;
(b) November 30 in Alaska; Michigan; New Jersey, New York; North Carolina; Ohio; Oregon; Pennsylvania; Virginia; Washington; and Wisconsin; or
(c) As designated in the actuarial documents for all other states and counties.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with the provisions of section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
State and counties
Cancellation and termination dates
Georgia, Texas
July 1.
Florida
August 15.
Oregon, Washington
February 1.
North Carolina
February 28.
Alaska, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Wisconsin
March 15.
All other states and counties
As designated in the Special Provisions.

# 6. Report of Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, to insure your processing cabbage, you must provide a copy of all your processor contracts to us on or before the acreage reporting date.

# 7. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the cabbage types in the county for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents, in which you have a share, and that are:
(1) Planted with inspected transplants, if such transplants are required by the Special Provisions;
(2) If direct seeded, planted with hybrid seed unless otherwise permitted by the Special Provisions;
(3) Planted within the planting periods as designated in the Special Provisions;
(4) Planted to be:
(i) Harvested and sold as fresh cabbage; or
(ii) Grown and sold as processing cabbage in accordance with the requirements of a processor contract executed on or before the acreage reporting date and not excluded from the processor contract at any time during the crop year; and
(5) Unless allowed by the Special Provisions:
(i) Not interplanted with another crop; and
(ii) Not sold by direct marketing.
(b) Under the processor contract, you will be considered to have a share in the insured crop to the extent you retain control of the acreage on which the cabbage is grown, your income from the insured crop is dependent on the amount of production delivered, and the processor contract provides for delivery of the cabbage under specified conditions and at a stipulated price.
(c) A processing cabbage producer who is also a processor may establish an insurable interest if the following additional requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions;
(2) Prior to the sales closing date, the Board of Directors or officers of the processor must execute and adopt a resolution that contains the same terms as an acceptable processor contract. Such resolution will be considered a processor contract under this policy; and
(3) Our inspection reveals that the processing facilities comply with the definition of “processor” contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 8. Insurable Acreage
In addition to the provisions of section 9 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) We will not insure any acreage that does not meet the rotation requirements contained in the Special Provisions.
(b) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the end of the planting period, to the extent that a majority of producers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that it is not practical to replant.
(c) For processing cabbage, insurable acreage will be:
(1) For acreage only based processor contracts, and acreage and production based processor contracts which specify a maximum number of acres, the lesser of:
(i) The planted acres; or
(ii) The maximum number of acres specified in the contract;
(2) For production only based processor contracts, the lesser of:
(i) The number of acres determined by dividing the production stated in the processor contract by the approved yield; or
(ii) The planted acres.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In lieu of the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, coverage begins on each unit or part of a unit the later of:
(1) The date we accept your application; or
(2) When the cabbage is planted in each planting period.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions, the end of the insurance period will be the earlier of:
(1) The date the crop should have been harvested; or
(2) The following applicable calendar date after planting;
(i) Alaska: October 1;
(ii) Florida:
(A) February 15 for the fall planting period;
(B) April 15 for the winter planting period; and
(C) May 31 for the spring planting period;
(iii) Georgia:
(A) January 15 for the fall planting period; and
(B) June 15 for the spring planting period;
(iv) Michigan, New Jersey, and Ohio:
(A) September 30 for the spring planting period; and
(B) November 25 for the summer planting period;
(v) New York and Pennsylvania: November 25;
(vi) North Carolina:
(A) July 10 for the spring planting period; and
(B) December 31 for the fall planting period;
(vii) Oregon:
(A) March 1 for all fall Red (Fresh) and Green (Fresh) types; and
(B) December 31 for all other types and planting periods;
(viii) Texas:
(A) December 31 for the summer planting period;
(B) February 15 for the fall planting period; and
(C) April 30 for the winter planting period;
(ix) Virginia:
(A) July 31 for the early spring planting period; and
(B) November 15 for the summer planting period;
(x) Washington: December 31;
(xi) Wisconsin: November 5; and
(xii) All other states and counties as provided in the Special Provisions.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Wildlife;
(4) Insects or plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of control measures;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Volcanic eruption; or
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by a cause of loss specified in sections 10(a)(1) through (6) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Failure to market the cabbage for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insured cause of loss that occurs during the insurance period (For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production, etc.); or
(2) Damage that occurs or becomes evident after the end of the insurance period, including, but not limited to, damage that occurs or becomes evident after the cabbage has been placed in storage.

# 11. Replanting Payments
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed if the crop is damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage and it is practical to replant.
(b) No replanting payment will be made on acreage planted prior to the initial planting date or after the end of the final planting period as designated by the Special Provisions.
(c) In accordance with the provisions of section 13(c) of the Basic Provisions, the maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre is the number of hundredweight specified in the Special Provisions multiplied by your price election, multiplied by your insured share. The fresh market cabbage price election will be used to determine processing cabbage replanting payments in counties where both fresh market and processing cabbage are insurable.
(d) When the insured crop is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable as an original planting, the liability for the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment attributable to your share. The premium will not be reduced.
(e) In lieu of the provisions contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions that limit a replanting payment to one each crop year, only one replanting payment will be made for acreage replanted during each planting period within the crop year, if separate planting periods are allowed by the Special Provisions.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
(a) Failure to meet the requirements of this section will result in an appraised amount of production to count of not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in our inability to make the required appraisal.
(b) In lieu of the provisions of section 14(b)(1) of the Basic Provisions, so that we may inspect the insured crop, you must give us notice within 72 hours of your initial discovery of damage if such discovery occurs more than 15 days prior to harvest of the acreage.
(c) In addition to the provisions of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, so that we may inspect the insured crop, you must give us notice:
(1) Immediately if damage is discovered 15 days or less prior to the beginning of harvest or during harvest.
(2) At least 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest, if direct marketing of the insured crop is allowed by the Special Provisions,
and you intend to direct market any of the crop.
(3) At least 15 days before the earlier of:
(i) The date harvest would normally start if any acreage on the unit will not be harvested; or
(ii) The beginning of harvest, if any production will be harvested for a use other than as indicated on the acreage report.
(d) After you have provided the applicable notice required by sections 12(b) and (c), we will conduct an appraisal to determine your production to count for the purposes of section 13(d).
(1) Except as provided in section 12(e), you must not dispose of or sell the damaged crop, or store the insured crop, until after we have appraised it and given you written consent to do so.
(2) If additional damage occurs after this appraisal, except for stored cabbage, we will conduct another appraisal.
(3) These appraisals, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count in accordance with section 13(d).
(e) In accordance with the requirements of section 14(c) of the Basic Provisions, if you initially discover damage to any insured cabbage within 15 days of or during harvest, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop for our inspection. The samples must be at least 3 rows wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit and must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after completion of harvest on the unit.

# 13. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis.
(1) In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(i) For any optional units, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; and
(ii) For any basic units, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for the units.
(2) For any processor contract that stipulates only the amount of production to be delivered, and notwithstanding the provisions of this section or any unit division provisions contained in the Basic Provisions, no indemnity will be paid for any loss of production on any unit if you produced a crop sufficient to fulfill the processor contract(s) forming the basis of the insurance guarantee;
(b) The extent of any damaged cabbage production must be determined not later than the date the cabbage is placed in storage if the production is stored prior to sale, or the date the cabbage is delivered to a buyer, wholesaler, packer, processor, or other handler if production is not stored.
(c) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insurable acreage by its respective production guarantee (per acre), by type if applicable;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 13(c)(1) by the respective price election, by type if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results in section 13(c)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to count of each type, if applicable (see section 13)(d)), by its respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 13(c)(4);
(6) Subtracting the results in section 13(c)(5) from the results of section 13(c)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 13(c)(6) by your share.
For example:
For a basic unit you have 100 percent share in 100 acres of cabbage, 50 acres for fresh market and 50 acres for processing as sauerkraut, with a production guarantee (per acre) of 400 hundredweight per acre for fresh market and 400 hundredweight per acre for processing as sauerkraut and a price election of $5.00 per hundredweight for fresh market and $1.90 per hundredweight for processing as sauerkraut. You are only able to harvest 9,000 hundredweight of fresh market cabbage and 9,000 hundredweight of cabbage for sauerkraut because an insured cause of loss has reduced production. Your total indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50 acres × 400 hundredweight = 20,000 hundredweight guarantee for the fresh market acreage.
50 acres × 400 hundredweight = 20,000 hundredweight guarantee for the processing as sauerkraut acreage.
(2) 20,000 hundredweight guarantee × $5.00 price election = $100,000 value of guarantee for the fresh market cabbage.
20,000 hundredweight guarantee × $1.90 price election = $38,000 value of guarantee for processing as sauerkraut.
(3) $100,000 + $38,000 = $138,000 total value of guarantee.
(4) 9,000 hundredweight × $5.00 price election = $45,000 value of production to count for the fresh market acreage.
9,000 hundredweight × $1.90 price election = $17,100 value of production to count for the acreage for processing as sauerkraut.
(5) $45,000 + $17,100 = $62,100 total value of production to count.
(6) $138,000 −$62,100 = $75,900 loss.
(7) $75,900 × 100 percent share = $75,900 indemnity payment.
(d) The total production to count (in hundredweight) of marketable cabbage from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee (per acre) for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) For which you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 12;
(C) That is put to another use without our consent;
(D) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(E) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) All production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) All unharvested marketable production;
(iv) All potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us. (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.
(e) Mature production that is considered damaged cabbage production but is sold will be adjusted for quality as follows:
(1) Dividing the amount received per hundredweight of such damaged cabbage production by the applicable price election; and
(2) Multiplying the result by the number of hundredweight of damaged cabbage production.

# 14. Late and Prevented Planting
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[74 FR 8709, Feb. 26, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 26281, June 2, 2009; 75 FR 15891, Mar. 30, 2010; 87 FR 38899, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 72364, Nov. 25, 2022]
§ 457.172
Coverage Enhancement Option.
The Coverage Enhancement Option for the 2009 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies: United States Department of Agriculture, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.
Reinsured policies: (Appropriate title for insurance provider).
Both FCIC and reinsured policies: Coverage Enhancement Option.
Both FCIC and reinsured policies:

# Coverage Enhancement Option

# 1. Definitions
CEO coverage level.
The coverage level percentage contained in the actuarial documents where the Coverage Enhancement Option (CEO) is available and selected by you. This percentage is applicable under the combined MPCI/CEO policy when losses under the MPCI policy exceed the deductible and an indemnity is owed.
CEO dollar amount of insurance.
The value of the additional insurance coverage for each unit provided by the CEO, which is determined by multiplying the CEO coverage level by the total value of the insured crop by unit and subtracting the MPCI dollar amount of insurance.
MPCI.
Multiple Peril Crop Insurance, the plan of insurance offered by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation as published at 7 CFR part 457.
MPCI coverage level.
The coverage level percentage you selected in the underlying MPCI policy to which CEO is attached.
MPCI dollar amount of insurance.
The value of the insurance coverage for each unit provided under the MPCI policy (the amount of insurance selected by you for dollar or similar plans of insurance, multiplied by the number of acres in the unit if such amount of insurance is on a per acre basis, or the amount determined by multiplying your production guarantee (per acre), times the price election, times the number of acres in the unit).
MPCI indemnity.
The indemnity determined for each unit under the MPCI policy to which CEO is attached, not including replant and prevented planting payments or any indemnity payable under CEO.
MPCI indemnity factor.
A factor determined by dividing the MPCI indemnity by the MPCI dollar amount of insurance for each unit. This factor is used to ensure that the indemnity paid under the CEO is proportional to the amount of loss and indemnity paid under the MPCI policy.
Total value of the insured crop by unit.
The value of the crop that is determined by dividing the MPCI dollar amount of insurance for each unit by the MPCI coverage level.
2. CEO is only available for insured crops where the actuarial documents contain a CEO coverage level. If there is a conflict between the terms of CEO and any other provision of your policy, the terms of the CEO will control.
3. To be eligible for CEO coverage on the insured crop, you must:
(a) Have an MPCI policy in force for the insured crop (or for citrus fruit, citrus trees, and stone fruit or other crops, as applicable, the insured type) and comply with all terms and conditions of such policy.
(b) Elect CEO in writing and choose a CEO coverage level (at least 5 percent higher than the MPCI coverage level), by the sales closing date for the insured crop.
(c) Elect a level of coverage greater than the Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) coverage level and a 100 percent price election. CEO is not available for the CAT level of coverage.
4. CEO is continuous and will remain in effect for as long as you continue to have a MPCI policy in effect for the insured crop, the actuarial documents contain a CEO coverage level, or until it is canceled by you or terminated by us on or before the cancellation or termination date, as applicable.
5. The premium for your policy will be determined by:
(a) Totaling the MPCI dollar amount of insurance and the CEO dollar amount of insurance; and
(b) Multiplying the result of section 5(a) by the premium rate for the insured crop applicable to your MPCI coverage level
6. With respect to the coverage provided under CEO:
(a) All acreage of the insured crop insured under your MPCI policy will be covered under the CEO;
(b) The amount of any replant or prevented planting payment that is payable under the MPCI policy will not be affected by the CEO;
(c) An indemnity will be payable under the CEO only after the underlying MPCI deductible is met and an MPCI indemnity is paid; and
(d) The total indemnity for each unit (MPCI coverage plus CEO) cannot exceed the combination of both the MPCI and CEO dollar amounts of insurance.
7. If you elect CEO and a MPCI indemnity is paid on any unit, CEO will pay a portion of the loss not paid under the deductible of the MPCI policy depending on the CEO coverage level you select (For example, if you selected a 50 percent MPCI coverage level, selected an 85 percent CEO coverage level, and had 60 percent loss of the insured crop, the total amount of indemnity paid under both the MPCI policy and the CEO would be equal to approximately 51 percent of the total value of the insured crop by unit). See the example in section 8.
8. In addition to the settlement of claim section for the applicable Crop Provisions, your indemnity will be computed for each unit as follows:
(a) Determine the MPCI indemnity factor;
(b) Determine the total value of the insured crop by unit;
(c) Determine the CEO dollar amount of insurance; and
(d) Multiply the MPCI indemnity factor times the CEO dollar amount of insurance to determine the indemnity under the CEO.

# Example:
Assume a policy with one unit; an MPCI coverage level of 50 percent and a CEO coverage level of 85 percent; 100% share; a $120,000 MPCI dollar amount of insurance; and a $72,000 payable indemnity under the MPCI portion of the policy.
Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(a) $72,000 MPCI loss ÷ by $120,000 MPCI dollar amount of insurance = .60 MPCI indemnity factor;
(b) $120,000 MPCI dollar amount of insurance, divided by the MPCI coverage level of .50 results in $240,000 total value of the insured crop by unit;
(c) $240,000 total value of the insured crop by unit multiplied by the CEO coverage level .85, equals $204,000, and subtracting $120,000 MPCI dollar amount of insurance equals $84,000 CEO dollar amount of insurance;
(d) .60 MPCI indemnity factor × $84,000 CEO dollar amount of insurance = $50,400 unit indemnity under the CEO.

# Note:
The total unit indemnity is $122,400 ($72,000 MPCI indemnity plus $50,400 CEO indemnity).
[73 FR 43610, July 28, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 80295, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 457.173
Florida Avocado crop insurance provisions.
The Florida Avocado Crop Insurance Provisions for the 2023 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:
United States Department of Agriculture Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
Reinsured policies: (Appropriate title for insurance provider)
Both FCIC and reinsured policies: Florida Avocado Crop Insurance Provisions.

# 1. Definitions.
Bushel.
A unit of measure equal to 55 pounds of avocados, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
Buckhorn.
To prune any limb at a diameter of at least four inches.
Crop year.
A period beginning with the date insurance attaches to the avocado crop and extending through the normal harvest time. The crop year is designated by the calendar year after insurance attaches.
Harvest.
Picking of the avocados from the trees or ground by hand or machine.
Pound.
A unit of weight equal to sixteen ounces avoirdupois.
Set out.
Transplanting a tree into the grove.
Type.
Early varieties, mid varieties, or late varieties of avocados, as specified in the Special Provisions.

# 2. Unit Division.
Provisions in section 34 of the Basic Provisions that allow optional units by section, section equivalent, or FSA farm number and by irrigated and non-irrigated practices are not applicable. Optional units may be established by type when provided for in the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices.
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one coverage level for all the avocados in the county insured under this policy unless the Special Provisions provide that you may select a different coverage level for each avocado type designated in the Special Provisions. However, if you elect the Catastrophic Risk Protection (CAT) level of coverage, the CAT level of coverage will be applicable to all types of avocados you produce in the county.
(b) You may select only one price election for all the avocados in the county insured under this policy unless the actuarial documents provide different price elections by type, in which case you may select one price election for each avocado type designated in the actuarial documents. The price elections you choose for each type must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price offered by us for each type. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for one type, you must choose 100 percent of the maximum price election for the other type. However, if you elect the CAT level of coverage, the price election percentage will be equal to 55 percent of the applicable price election for each type of avocado you produce in the county.
(c) You must report, by the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by type, if applicable:
(1) Any damage, removal of trees, trees that have been buckhorned, change in grove practices, or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield per acre to less than the yield upon which the production guarantee per acre is based, and the number of affected acres;
(2) The number of trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees;
(4) Any acreage that is excluded under section 6 of these Crop Provisions; and
(5) For acreage interplanted with another crop:
(i) The age of the interplanted crop, and type, if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information that we request in order to establish your production guarantee per acre.
(d) We will reduce the yield used to establish your production guarantee as necessary, based on the effect of interplanting a perennial crop; removal of trees; trees that have been buckhorned; damage; or a change in practices on the yield potential of the insured crop. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance as set out in paragraph (c) of this section, we will reduce your production guarantee as necessary at any time we become aware of the circumstance.

# 4. Contract Changes.
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is August 31 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates.
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are the first November 30th after insurance attaches.

# 6. Insured Crop.
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the commercially grown avocado types for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents for the county:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That are grown for harvest as avocados; and
(3) That are grown on trees that, if inspected, are considered acceptable to us.
(b) In addition to the avocados not insurable in section 8 of the Basic Provisions, we do not insure any avocados produced on trees that have not:
(1) Reached the fourth leaf year; and
(2) Produced the minimum production per acre as specified in the Special Provisions in at least one of the previous three crop years.

# 7. Insurable Acreage.
In lieu of the provisions in section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibits insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, avocados interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine it does not meet the requirements of insurability contained in these Crop Provisions.

# 8. Insurance Period.
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) For the year of application:
(i) If you apply for coverage on or before November 21st, coverage begins for the crop year on December 1 of the calendar year; or
(ii) If you apply for coverage after November 21 but prior to December 1, insurance will attach on the 10th day after your properly completed application is received in our local office, unless we inspect the acreage during the 10-day period and determine that it does not meet the requirements for insurability contained in your policy.
(iii) You must provide any information we require so we may determine the condition of the grove to be insured.
(2) For continuous policies, coverage begins for the crop year on December 1 of the calendar year. Policy cancellation that results solely from transferring an existing policy to a different insurance provider for a subsequent crop year will not be considered a break in continuous coverage.
(3) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions, is:
(i) The first November 30th after insurance attaches for early varieties and mid varieties of avocados.
(ii) The second March 31st after insurance attaches for late varieties of avocados.
(b) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage of avocados after coverage begins, but on or before the acreage reporting date of any crop year, and if after inspection we consider the acreage acceptable, then insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable share on any acreage of avocados on or before the acreage reporting date of any crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to, no premium will be due and no indemnity paid for, such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of coverage and right to an indemnity or a similar form approved by us is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 9. Causes of Loss.
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the grove;
(3) Wildlife, unless control measures have not been taken;
(4) Earthquake;
(5) Volcanic eruption;
(6) Failure of the irrigation water supply caused by an insured peril specified in section 9(a)(1) through (5) that occurs during the insurance period.
(7) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures; and
(8) Plant disease, but not due to insufficient or improper application of disease control measures.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Theft; or
(2) Inability to market the avocados for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept production, etc.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss.
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions, the following will apply:
(a) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested.
(1) We will conduct a preharvest appraisal that will be used to determine your production. If damage occurs after the preharvest appraisal, and you can provide acceptable records to us that account for all production removed from the unit after our appraisal, we will conduct an additional appraisal that will be used to determine your production.
(2) Failure to give timely notice that production will be harvested for direct marketing will result in an appraised production to count of not less than the production guarantee per acre if such failure results in an inability to make an accurate appraisal.
(b) If you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must notify us 15 days prior to the beginning of harvest or immediately if damage is discovered during harvest so that we may inspect the damaged production.
(1) You must not destroy the damaged crop until after we have given you written consent to do so.
(2) If you fail to meet the requirements of this subsection, and such failure results in our inability to inspect the damaged production, we may consider all such production to be undamaged and include it as production to count.

# 11. Settlement of Claim.
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type, if applicable, by its respective production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 11(b)(1) by the respective price election for each type, if applicable;
(3) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to be counted (see section 11(c)) by type, if applicable, by the respective price election;
(5) Totaling the results in section 11(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the results in section 11(b)(5) from the results in section 11(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 11(b)(6) by your share.
For example:
You have a 100 percent share in 50 acres of early variety A in the unit, with a guarantee of 140 bushels per acre and a price election of $16.00 per bushel. You are only able to harvest 6,000 bushels due to an insured cause of loss. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 50 acres × 140 bushels = 7,000 bushel guarantee;
(2) 7,000 bushels × $16.00 price election = $112,000.00 value of guarantee;
(4) 6,000 bushels × $16.00 price election = $96,000.00 value of production to count;
(6) $112,000.00 − $96,000.00 = $16,000 loss; and
(7) $16,000 × 100 percent = $16,000 indemnity.
(c) The total production to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold by direct marketing if you fail to meet the requirements contained in section 10 of these Crop Provisions;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production;
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end. If you do not agree with our appraisal, we may defer the claim only if you agree to continue to care for the crop. We will then make another appraisal when you notify us of further damage or that harvest is general in the area unless you harvested the crop, in which case we will use the harvested production. If you do not continue to adequately care for the crop, our appraisal made prior to deferring the claim will be used to determine the production to count; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting.
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
[75 FR 15607, Mar. 30, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 38899, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52854, Aug. 30, 2022]
§ 457.174
Forage Seed crop insurance provisions.
The forage seed crop provisions for the 2015 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# FCIC policies: United States Department of Agriculture, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Forage Seed Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions.
Actual value.
The dollar value received, or that could be received, for the forage seed if the forage seed production is properly handled in accordance with the requirements in the forage seed contract or the applicable certifying agency's requirements.
Adequate stand.
A population of live plants that equals or exceeds the minimum required number of plants per square foot as shown in the actuarial documents.
Amount of insurance.
The amount obtained by multiplying the production guarantee per acre for each type and practice in the unit by the insured acreage of that type and practice, by the applicable base price, and by the percentage of base price you elected. The total of these results will be the amount of insurance for the unit.
Base price.
For seed under a forage seed contract, the price per pound (excluding any discounts or incentives that may apply) stated in the forage seed contract. For certified forage seed not under a forage seed contract, and for forage seed producers who are also forage seed companies, the price contained in the actuarial documents.
Certification application.
The form used to request certification of forage seed by the certifying agency.
Certification standards.
The standards and procedures of the certification agency to assure genetic purity and identity of the seed certified.
Certified forage seed.
Forage seed that meets the certification standards administered by a certifying agency at the time of harvest and that has been grown under a certification application accepted by the certifying agency on or before the acreage reporting date or as otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
Certifying agency.
An agency authorized under the laws of a State, Territory, or possession, to officially certify seed, which has standards and procedures to assure the genetic purity and identity of the seed certified, and approves certification applications for the certified forage seed that meets the certification standards at time of harvest.
Established stand.
An adequate stand of live plants for crop years after the seed-to-seed year.
Fall planted.
Forage seed crop planted after May 31 of the previous crop year.
Forage seed company.
A business enterprise that possesses all licenses for marketing forage seed required by the state in which it is domiciled or operates, and which possesses facilities with enough storage and capacity to accept and process the insured crop timely.
Forage seed contract.
A written contract executed between the forage seed crop producer and a forage seed company containing, at a minimum:
(a) The producer's commitment to plant, grow, and deliver the forage seed produced from such plants to the seed company;
(b) The seed company's commitment to purchase all the production from a specified number of acres or the specified quantity of production stated in the contract; and
(c) Either a fixed price per unit of the forage seed or a formula to determine the price per unit value of such seed. Any formula for establishing value must be specified in the written contract. If the formula uses a future price that is settled after the applicable acreage reporting date, then the base price contained in the actuarial documents will apply.
Forage seed crop.
Small-seeded legume plants grown for seed (e.g., alfalfa, clovers, etc.), including those grown for the production of hybrid seed, as shown in the actuarial documents.
Harvest.
Removal of seed from the windrow or field.
Pound.
Sixteen (16) ounces avoirdupois.
Price election.
In lieu of the definition in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the price election will be the base price and will be used for the purposes of determining premium and indemnity under the policy.
Qualified seed testing laboratory.
Laboratory qualified by the State to test the forage seed to determine whether it qualifies as certified forage seed.
Seed-to-seed year.
The calendar year in which planting occurs for spring planted forage seed and the subsequent calendar year for fall planted forage seed.
Spring planted. Forage seed crop planted before June 1 of the current crop year.

# 2. Unit Division.
In lieu of the optional unit provisions in section 34 of the Basic Provisions, you may select optional units by forage seed contract or variety if permitted by the Special Provisions.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities.
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may elect only one percentage of base price and one coverage level for each forage seed crop you elect to insure, grown in the county, and designated in the actuarial documents. If separate base prices are available by forage seed crop type, the percentage election of base price and coverage level you choose for each forage seed crop type must be the same. For example, if you choose 100 percent of the base price and 65 percent coverage level for a specific forage seed crop type, you must choose 100 percent of the base price and 65 percent coverage level for all the forage seed crop types.
(b) For each unit, separate guarantees will be determined by forage seed crop type and practice.

# 4. Contract Changes.
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is June 30 preceding the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates.
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are:
California, Nevada and Utah. October 31;
All Other States. September 30.

# 6. Report of Acreage.
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 6 of the Basic Provisions, you must submit to us, on or before the acreage reporting date or as otherwise specified in the Special Provisions:
(1) A copy of your forage seed contract for your contracted forage seed acreage; or
(2) A copy of the accepted certification application for your certified seed acreage.
(b) Failure to provide a copy of the forage seed contract or the certification application accepted by the certifying agency by the
acreage reporting date or the date otherwise specified in the Special Provisions will result in denial of liability and no indemnity due.

# 7. Insured Crop.
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all types and practices of each forage seed crop you elect to insure, that is grown in the county and for which a premium rate is provided by the actuarial documents:
(1) In which you have a share; and
(2) That is grown for harvest as:
(i) Certified forage seed; or
(ii) Seed grown under a forage seed contract executed on or before the acreage reporting date or the date otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(b) For contracted acreage of forage seed crops only, you will not be considered to have a share in the insured crop unless, under the terms of the forage seed contract, you are at risk of a financial loss at least equal to the amount of insurance on such acreage.
(c) In addition to the crop and acreage listed as not insured in sections 8 and 9 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure any forage seed crop that:
(1) Is interplanted with another crop, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions;
(2) Is planted into an established grass or legume;
(3) Does not have an adequate stand at the beginning of the insurance period unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions;
(4) Exceeds the age limitations for the forage seed crop or type contained in the Special Provisions; or
(5) Is utilized for any purpose during the crop year other than for seed production, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(d) A forage seed producer who is also a forage seed company may establish an insurable interest if the following requirements are met:
(1) The producer must comply with these Crop Provisions; and
(2) All the forage seed grown by the forage seed company is enrolled with the appropriate certifying agency.

# 8. Insurance Period.
(a) Insurance attaches on acreage with an adequate stand on the later of the date we accept your application or the applicable date as follows, unless provided otherwise in the Special Provisions:
(1) For fall planted seed-to-seed year and established stands of forage seed crops, coverage begins for each crop year on:
(i) November 1 for counties in California, Utah and Nevada; and
(ii) October 1 for counties in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, Wyoming and all other states.
(2) For spring planted seed-to-seed year stands of forage seed crops, coverage begins:
(i) May 1 for counties in California and Washington; and
(ii) May 15 for counties in Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Wyoming and all other states.
(b) The calendar dates for the end of the insurance period for counties in the following states are as follows unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions:
(1) California, Nevada and Utah. October 31.
(2) Idaho, Oregon, Montana, Washington, Wyoming and all other states. September 30.

# 9. Causes of Loss.
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss that occur during the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire;
(3) Insects and plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of control measures;
(4) Wildlife;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Volcanic eruption; or
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if caused by a peril specified in sections 9(a)(1) through (6) that occurs during the insurance period.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) The crop not being timely harvested, unless such delay in harvesting is solely and directly caused by a cause of loss specified in sections 9(a)(1) through (6);
(2) Insufficient supply of pollinators, as determined by us, unless lack of pollinators or pollination is solely and directly caused by a cause of loss specified in sections 9(a)(1) through (7);
(3) Failure of the certification standard or forage seed company contract acceptance caused by failure to follow proper isolation requirements or inadequate weed control, as determined by us, unless such failure is solely and directly due to a cause of loss specified in sections 9(a)(1) through (6); or
(4) Failure of the certification standard or forage seed contract acceptance due to failure to follow all other certification or contract requirements, as determined by us, unless such failure is solely and directly caused by a cause of loss specified in sections 9(a)(1) through (6).

# 10. Settlement of Claim.
(a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide separate acceptable production records:
(1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such production records were not provided; or
(2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage to your forage seed crop covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage for each type and practice by the production guarantee;
(2) Multiplying each result in section 10(b)(1) by the price election;
(3) Totaling the results in section 10(b)(2);
(4) Multiplying the total production to count for each type and practice by the price election;
(5) Totaling the results of each crop type in section 10(b)(4);
(6) Subtracting the result in section 10(b)(5) from the result in section 10(b)(3); and
(7) Multiplying the result in section 10(b)(6) by your share.
(c) The total forage seed production to count (in pounds) from all insurable acreage on the unit will include:
(1) All appraised production as follows:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is put to another use without our consent;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us.
(ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested production; and
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage that you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached and if:
(A) You do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisals made prior to giving consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count);
(B) You elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage in accordance with section 10 (e).
(d) In addition to the provisions of section 15 of the Basic Provisions, we may determine the amount of production of any unharvested forage seed on the basis of our field appraisals conducted after the normal time of harvest for the area. If the acreage is later harvested, production records must be provided and if the harvested production exceeds the appraised production, the claim will be adjusted.
(e) Production not meeting the minimum quality requirements contained in the forage seed contract or certifying agency's standards based on tests conducted by a qualified seed testing laboratory due to insurable causes will be reduced as follows:
(1) Divide the actual value by the base price for the insured type; and
(2) Multiply the result (not to exceed 1.0) by the number of pounds of such production.

# Example:
You have a 100 percent share and 100 acres of forage seed in the unit, with a guarantee of 600 pounds per acre on 75 acres of an established stand of forage seed and a guarantee of 300 pounds per acre on 25 acres of a spring planted seed-to-seed year stand. All acreage is contracted with a base price of $1.20 per pound and you have selected 100 percent of the base price. Losses due to insured causes of loss have reduced production and quality and you only harvested 37,000 pounds of seed. A portion of the total production was of poor quality; 10,000 pounds of seed failed to achieve the contract minimum germination requirement; and the salvaged production was valued at $0.80 per pound. Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
(1) 75 acres × 600 pounds = 45,000-pound guarantee
25 acres × 300 pounds = 7,500-pound guarantee;
(2) 45,000 pounds × $1.20 per pound price election = $54,000 value guarantee
7,500 pounds × $1.20 per pound price election = $9,000 value guarantee;
(3) $54,000 + $9,000 = $63,000 total value of the guarantee;
(4) 27,000 pounds met the contract quality requirements = 27,000 pounds production to count
27,000 pounds × $1.20 per pound = $32,400 10,000 pounds × ($0.80 per pound/$1.20 per pound) = 6,667 pounds production to count
6,667 pounds × $1.20 per pound = $8,000;
(5) $32,400 + $8,000 = $40,400 total value of production to count;
(6) $63,000 − $40,400 = $22,600 loss; and
(7) $22,600 × 100% share = $22,600 indemnity payment.

# 11. Late and Prevented Planting.
The late and prevented planting provisions of the Basic Provisions are not applicable for forage seed.
[79 FR 30705, May 29, 2014; 79 FR 35681, June 24, 2014]
§ 457.175
California avocado crop insurance provisions.
The California Avocado Crop Provisions for the 2026 and succeeding crop years are as follows:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# California Avocado Crop Provisions
In return for your payment of premium and administrative fee for the coverage, these California Avocado Crop Provisions will be attached to and made part of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, Basic Provisions (Basic Provisions) subject to the terms and conditions in your policy.

# 1. Definitions
CDFA. The California Department of Food and Agriculture.
Commercial sale.
Any transaction in which avocados have been inspected under the rules of the CDFA and to which a marketing assessment payment applies under the Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 2000.
Crop year.
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, the period of time that begins on December 1 immediately prior to the time the avocado trees normally bloom and that ends on October 31 of the calendar year following such bloom. Crop year is designated by the calendar year following the year in which the avocado trees normally bloom.
Harvest.
Picking of marketable avocado fruit from the trees or from the ground when permitted as described in section 11(c).
Initially apply.
Your application for crop insurance under these Crop Provisions for the first time and following each time you have cancelled the insurance or the insurance has terminated by action of the policy.
Interplanted.
In lieu of the definition contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, acreage in which two or more crops are planted in any form of an alternating or mixed pattern.
Marketable.
An avocado fruit that meets the standards published by the CDFA with respect to maturity, defects, size, and weight.
No. 2 avocado.
An avocado fruit that is marketable but that is diverted into processing uses due to visual defects resulting from an insured cause of loss.
Pound.
A unit of weight equal to sixteen ounces avoirdupois.
Rootstock.
The root and stem portion of a tree to which a scion can be grafted.
Scion.
Twig or portion of a twig of one plant that is grafted onto a rootstock.
Set out.
Transplanting a tree into the orchard or grafting a scion onto rootstock.
Stumping.
A practice whereby the lateral branches of an avocado tree are removed. A portion of the bole also may be removed. The resulting stump is approximately 4 feet or greater in height.
Type.
A term used to designate different varieties of avocados, as more fully described in the Special Provisions.

# 2. Unit Division
(a) Optional units may be established by:
(1) Organic and non-organic farming practices as provided in section 34(c)(3) of the Basic Provisions;
(2) Non-contiguous land; or
(3) Type.
(b) Optional units by land location as provided in section 34(c)(1) of the Basic Provisions and by irrigation practice as provided in section 34(c)(2) of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.

# 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices
In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) You may select only one coverage level for all the avocados in the county insured under this policy.
(b) You must report, on or before the production reporting date designated in section 3 of the Basic Provisions, by unit:
(1) Any damage, stumping (including the year or years that the stumping was performed), or removal of trees; change in orchard practices; or any other circumstance that may reduce the expected yield per acre to less than the approved yield and the number of affected acres and trees;
(2) The number of trees on insurable and uninsurable acreage;
(3) The age of the trees;
(4) Any acreage excluded under section 6 of these Crop Provisions; and
(5) For acreage interplanted with another crop:
(i) The age of the interplanted crop, and type if applicable;
(ii) The planting pattern; and
(iii) Any other information we request to establish your approved yield per acre.
(c) We will reduce the approved yield, as necessary, based on your estimate of the effect of any circumstance listed in section 3(b) that may reduce your yields from previous levels. If you fail to notify us of any circumstance that may reduce your yields from previous levels, we will reduce your approved yield at any time we become aware of the circumstance. If the circumstance occurred:
(1) Before the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year regardless of whether the circumstance was due to an insured or uninsured cause of loss;
(2) After the beginning of the insurance period and you notify us by the production reporting date, the approved yield will be reduced for the current crop year only if the potential reduction in the approved yield is due to an uninsured cause of loss; or
(3) Before or after the beginning of the insurance period and you fail to notify us by the production reporting date, an amount equal to the reduction in the approved yield will be added to the production to count calculated in section 11(c)(1)(ii) due to uninsured causes. We will reduce your approved yield for the subsequent crop year to reflect any reduction in the productive capacity of the trees or in the yield potential of the insured acreage.
(d) In the event the avocado trees are damaged to the extent that we determine the APH history you certified no longer is representative of the potential production of the unit, we will reduce your approved yield to a level consistent with that reduced potential. Such reduction will not occur for a crop year for which insurance already has attached if the damage is due to a cause of loss that is insurable for the avocado fruit.
(e) Instead of reporting your production for the current crop year as required by section 3(f)(1) of the Basic Provisions, you are required to report the production for the crop year that ended on the October 31 immediately preceding the cancellation date,
e.g.,
2023 crop year production must be reported by the production reporting date for the 2025 crop year.
(f) When you initially apply for insurance:
(1) You must certify your production records for at least the most recently completed crop year;
(2) If you do not certify your production records for any one or more of the three crop years immediately prior to the most recently completed crop year, you will be assigned a percentage of the transitional yield included in the actuarial documents for that crop year. The percentages will be those described in sections 3 and 5 of the Basic Provisions. All other provisions of sections 3 and 5 of the Basic Provisions apply.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is the August 31 that precedes the cancellation date.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are the November 30 immediately prior to the first day of the crop year.

# 6. Insured Crop
(a) In accordance with section 8 of the Basic Provisions, the crop insured will be all the avocados in the county grown on insurable acreage, and for which premium rates are provided:
(1) In which you have a share;
(2) That is grown for harvest as avocado fruit for commercial sale;
(3) That is a type identified in the actuarial documents;
(4) That is irrigated; and
(5) That is grown on trees that, if inspected, are considered acceptable to us.
(b) In addition to section 8 of the Basic Provisions that identify an uninsurable crop, we do not insure any avocados produced on trees that have not reached the sixth leaf year unless the unit has produced an average of at least 2,000 pounds of avocados per acre in one of the most recent three crop years or as otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.
(c) Avocado trees that have been stumped are not insurable for three calendar years after the year stumping was performed. The calendar year stumping occurred will be considered to be the actual calendar year if performed between January 1 and June 30 of that year. It will be considered to be the following calendar year if performed between July 1 and December 31.

# 7. Insurable Acreage
(a) In lieu of that part of section 9 of the Basic Provisions that prohibits insurance attaching to a crop planted with another crop, avocados interplanted with another perennial crop are insurable unless we inspect the acreage and determine it does not meet the requirements of insurability contained in these Crop Provisions.
(b) In addition to the acreage designated as not insurable in section 9 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure avocados produced on any acreage infected with Phytophthora root rot unless you follow good orchard management practices as recommended by agricultural experts.

# 8. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) Coverage begins on December 1st of the crop year.
(2) The calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the second October 31st of the crop year.
(b) In addition to section 11 of the Basic Provisions:
(1) If you acquire an insurable share in any insurable acreage on or before the acreage reporting date of any crop year, and if we inspect and consider the acreage acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such acreage on the calendar date for the beginning of the insurance period.
(2) If you relinquish your insurable interest on any acreage of avocados on or before the acreage reporting date of any crop year, insurance will not be considered to have attached to and no premium will be due, and no indemnity paid, for such acreage for that crop year unless:
(i) A transfer of right to an indemnity or a similar form approved by us is completed by all affected parties;
(ii) We are notified by you or the transferee in writing of such transfer on or before the acreage reporting date; and
(iii) The transferee is eligible for crop insurance.

# 9. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided against unavoidable loss of production due to the following causes of loss occurring within the insurance period:
(1) Adverse weather conditions;
(2) Fire, unless weeds and other forms of undergrowth have not been controlled or pruning debris has not been removed from the orchard;
(3) Insects and disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of control measures;
(4) Wildlife;
(5) Earthquake;
(6) Volcanic eruption; or
(7) Failure of the irrigation water supply due to an insured cause of loss specified in sections 9(a)(1) through (6).
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we will not insure against damage or loss of production due to:
(1) Theft;
(2) Phytophthora root rot, if you do not maintain cultural practices to minimize the potential for damage due to this pathogen; or
(3) Inability to market the avocados for any reason other than actual physical damage from an insurable cause specified in this section. For example, we will not pay you an indemnity if you are unable to market any avocado fruit due to quarantine, boycott, or refusal of any person to accept such fruit.

# 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to the requirements of section 14 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) If any portion of your crop will be direct marketed, you must notify us at least 15 calendar days before any production will be harvested. We will conduct an inspection and appraisal, if needed, that will be used to determine your production to count for such production. If damage occurs after this inspection, we will conduct one or more additional inspections as needed. These inspections, and any acceptable records provided by you, will be used to determine your production to count. Failure to give timely notice as required will result in production to count determined as described in section 11(c) if we are not able to determine the amount of such production;
(b) If you intend to claim an indemnity on any unit, you must notify us immediately so we may inspect the unit. You must not sell or otherwise dispose of any damaged production until we have given you written consent to do so, or 15 days, whichever is earlier. If you fail to meet the requirements of this subsection all such production will be considered undamaged and included as production to count;
(c) We will not perform any appraisals of potential production earlier than the July that follows the bloom for the crop year; and
(d) You must notify us immediately if you intend to stump 10 percent or more of the trees on a unit after insurance has attached for the crop year.

# 11. Settlement of Claim
(a) We will determine your loss separately for each unit you defined on your acreage report or that we find to exist in accordance with section 2 of these Crop Provisions. If you do not or cannot provide acceptable records of production for the crop year for:
(1) Any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which such records were not provided; or
(2) Any basic unit, we will allocate commingled production to each basic unit in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit.
(b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by:
(1) Multiplying the insured acreage by the production guarantee;
(2) Subtracting from the result of section 11(b)(1) the total production to count (see section 11(c));
(3) Multiplying the result in section 11(b)(2) by the price election, by the price election factor, and by your share.
(c) The total production to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include the value of all appraised and harvested production, as follows:
(1) Appraised production to be counted will include:
(i) Not less than the production guarantee per acre for acreage:
(A) That is abandoned;
(B) That is sold or otherwise disposed by direct marketing if you failed to provide the notice required by section 10 and we were not able to determine the amount of such production;
(C) That is damaged solely by uninsured causes; or
(D) For which you fail to provide production records that are acceptable to us;
(ii) Potential production lost due to uninsured causes;
(iii) Unharvested marketable production (the quantity of such production may be reduced as described in section 11(d));
(iv) Potential production on insured acreage you intend to put to another use or abandon, if you agree to our appraisal of such production. Upon such
agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end when you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised production is not reached:
(A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop, we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us. The production to count for such acreage will be based on the greater of the harvested production or our appraisal in accordance with section 15(b) of the Basic Provisions from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the production to count; or
(B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the production to count for the acreage will be based on the greater of harvested production or our reappraisal in accordance with section 15(b) of the Basic Provisions if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and
(2) All marketable harvested production (the quantity of such production may be reduced as described in section 11(d)). Any production that is not marketable due to an insured cause of loss will not be included in the production to count.
(d) The quantity of appraised and harvested marketable production may be reduced if the production is considered to be a No. 2 avocado and the price of such marketable production is less than 75 percent of the maximum price election. The quantity of such production will be multiplied by an adjustment factor equal to the lesser of 1.00 or the price of the damaged avocados divided by the maximum price election.

# 12. Late and Prevented Planting
Sections 16 and 17 of the Basic Provisions do not apply to these Crop Provisions.

# 13. Example of Your Insurance Protection
You certify production records that support the yields per acre shown below:
Year
Yield/acre
1
4,559
2
2,978
3
10,112
4
2,014
5
2,420
AVERAGE (APPROVED) Yield = 4,417 lbs.
Assume you selected the 65 percent coverage level. The unit contains 10 acres. The production guarantee per acre is:
4,417 × 65% = 2,871 lbs. per acre
The production guarantee for the unit is:
2,871 × 10 acres = 28,710 lbs.
Assume further that the price election is $0.90 per lb. The liability (amount of insurance) for the unit is equal to:
28,710 lbs. × $0.90 = $25,839
Assume the unit produced 15,000 lbs. Your share is 100 percent.
The indemnity is calculated as follows:
2,871 × 10 acres = 28,710 lbs.
28,710 lbs. −15,000 lbs. = 13,710 lbs.
13,710 lbs. × $0.90 × 1.000 = $12,339.
[82 FR 61131, Dec. 27, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 16767, Apr. 17, 2018; 87 FR 38900, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 52854, Aug. 30, 2022; 88 FR 59790, Aug. 30, 2023; 88 FR 70339, Oct. 11, 2023; 89 FR 53847, June 27, 2024]
§ 457.176
Cultivated clam crop insurance provisions.
The cultivated clam crop provisions for the 2019 and succeeding crop years are as follows:
FCIC policies:

# United States Department of Agriculture

# Federal Crop Insurance Corporation

# Cultivated Clam Crop Provisions

# 1. Definitions.
Amount of insurance.
For each basic unit, your inventory value multiplied
by the coverage level percentage you elect, and multiplied by your share. However, for catastrophic risk protection policies, amount of insurance is your inventory value multiplied by the coverage level percentage you elect (for CAT coverage the level is limited to 50 percent), multiplied by your share, and multiplied by 55 percent. Your accumulated paid indemnities during the crop year for each basic or optional unit may not exceed your amount of insurance.
Basic unit value before loss.
The stage value of all undamaged insurable clams, in the basic unit or, if elected, all optional units combined, immediately prior to the occurrence of any loss as determined by our appraisal. This allows the amount of insurance under the policy to be prorated among the individual units based on the actual value of the clams in the unit at the time of loss. It is also the basis for determining whether or not an indemnity is due. This value is used to ensure that you have not under-reported your clam inventory value.
Clam.
A cultivated
Mercenaria mercenaria
(quahog).
Crop year.
The twelve-month period beginning December 1 and extending through November 30 of the next calendar year, designated by the calendar year in which insurance ends.
Crop year deductible.
The deductible percentage multiplied by the sum of the inventory values within each basic unit. The crop year deductible will be increased for any increases in the inventory value on the inventory value report. The crop year deductible will be reduced by any previously incurred deductible if you timely report each loss to us.
Deductible percentage.
An amount equal to 100 percent minus the percent of coverage you select. The percentage is 50 percent for catastrophic risk protection coverage.
Disease.
Any pathogen or group of pathogens, parasitic infestation or plague verified by an aquaculture pathologist and shown to be a primary cause to the death of the insured clams.
Freeze.
The formation of ice in the cells of the animal caused by low air temperatures.
Global Positioning System (GPS).
A space based radio position, navigation, and time transfer system involving satellites and computers to determine the latitude and longitude of a receiver on Earth by computing the time difference for signals from different satellites to reach the receiver and referenced in the Special Provisions.
Growing location.
A lease parcel, permit or licensed area, whose boundaries are readily discernable above the water, and identified on a map that shows enough detail to distinguish seeded areas within the site.
Growout bag.
A mesh bag used throughout the growing season to contain clams when placed in the appropriate growing medium and as further defined by the Special Provisions.
Harvest.
Removal of marketable clams from the unit. Clams that are removed from the growing location but not of sufficient size to be marketable are not considered harvested if returned to the growing location.
Ice floe.
Floating ice formed in sheets on the sea surface.
Inventory value.
The total of the stage values from the inventory value report.
Inventory value report.
Your report that declares the stage values of insurable clams in accordance with section 6. See the Cultivated Clam Insurance Standards Handbook, Exhibit 5 for the inventory value report completion instructions and form.
Land.
The land under a body of water suitable for planting clams and the column of water above the land if designated and controlled by state law.
Lease.
A contract that grants use of land in or assigned to a county for a specified term and for a specified payment and provides the lessee with the exclusive use of the land to plant clams.
Lease parcel.
A legally identifiable tract or plot of land covered by a lease, permit, or license.
License.
Official or legal permission that grants use of land in or assigned to a county for a specified term and provides the licensee with the exclusive use of the land to plant clams.
Non-contiguous.
In lieu of the definition in the Basic Provisions, separately-named, high-density aquaculture lease sites or shellfish sites are considered non-contiguous, unless limited by the Special Provisions. Individual land parcels within such sites are not considered non-contiguous.
Occurrence deductible.
(a) This deductible allows a smaller deductible than the crop year deductible to be used when:
(1) Inventory values are less than the reported basic unit value; or
(2) You have elected optional units, if applicable.
(b) The occurrence deductible is the lesser of:
(1) The deductible percentage multiplied by the unit value before loss multiplied by the under-report factor; or
(2) The crop year deductible.
Permit.
A document giving official or legal permission to use land in or assigned to a county for a specified term and provides the permittee with the exclusive use of the land to plant clams.
Planting.
The placing of seed clams into the appropriate growing medium for the practice specified.
Pollution.
The presence in the water of a substance that directly causes death of the clams. The substance shall not be parasitical, bacterial, fungal or viral, or any substance used by you for medicinal purposes. Pollution will also include any increase or decrease in the content of any normal soluble or insoluble constituent of water including mud and silt, feed residues, solid or liquid fish wastes, dissolved gases and any other substance normally present in the water of the lease parcel.
Practical to replant.
In lieu of the definition of “Practical to replant” contained in section 1 of the Basic Provisions, unless limited by the Special Provisions, practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors including, but not limited to the causes of loss listed in section 10 of these provisions, that replanting the insured crop will allow the crop to develop normally during the remainder of the crop year. Unavailability of seed clams will not be considered a valid reason for failure to replant.
Practice.
The cultural methods of producing clams such as trays, mesh bags, round pens, lantern nets or bottom planting.
Replant.
Unless limited by the Special Provisions, performing the cultural practices necessary to prepare for replacement of insurable clams that were destroyed by an insurable cause of loss and then placing living insurable clams into mesh bags or pens, or seeding them into prepared growout beds, bottom culture, bottom trays, or floating trays on insurable acreage.
Salinity.
The dissolved solids (typically salts such as chloride, sodium, and potassium) in ocean water expressed as parts per thousand.
Seed clam.
(a) For clams placed in a field nursery or a nursery bag—a clam that is a minimum of 5 millimeters, measured at the longest shell distance that is parallel to the hinge.
(b) For all others—a clam which is a minimum of 10 millimeters, measured at the longest shell distance that is parallel to the hinge.
Separately named high-density aquaculture lease site.
The submerged subdivided land under a body of water suitable for the cultivation of clams and identified and named separately by the Division of Marine Resources or similar regulatory agency.
Shellfish harvest ban.
A State or Federal order that prohibits harvesting clams for human food in areas where monitoring program data indicates that fecal material, pathogenic microorganisms, poisonous or deleterious substances, marine toxins, or radio nuclides have reached excessive concentrations.
Stage.
Clams that have attained the size or age specified for stage 1, 2, 3, or 4 as defined in the Special Provisions.
Stage value.
The dollar value of the inventory of all insurable clams at each stage based on the survival factors and the prices shown in the actuarial documents for such stages, in each unit on your inventory value report, including any revision that increases the value of your insurable inventory.
Storm surge.
A significant increase or decrease in water depth relative to normal tides that is caused by a strong,
continuous and prolonged strong flow of onshore or offshore winds.
Survival factor.
A factor shown on the actuarial documents that represents the expected percentage of clams that will normally survive. If you provide production records for three consecutive years, your records will be used in lieu of the factor contained in the actuarial document to determine the survival factor. The survival factor is applied at the time of inventory and is not applied a second time to the same inventory when a loss occurs. Clams that are seeded subsequent to the annual inventory value report must be adjusted by the survival factor.
Tidal wave.
A large water wave, wave train, or a series of waves, generated in a body of water by an impulsive disturbance that vertically displaces the water column or a destructive type of wave motion in seas and oceans, associated with either strong winds or underwater earthquakes.
Under-report factor.
The factor that adjusts your indemnity for under-reporting of inventory values. The factor is always used in determining any indemnities. The under-report factor is the lesser of: (a) 1.000; or (b) the sum of all stage values reported on all the inventory value reports, minus the total of all previous losses, as adjusted by any previous under-reporting factors, divided by the basic unit value before loss.
Unit value after loss.
The value of the remaining insurable clams in each basic or optional unit based on the percentage of the reference maximum dollar amount contained in the actuarial documents, immediately following the occurrence of a loss as determined by our appraisal, plus any reduction in value due to uninsured causes. This is used to determine the loss of value for each individual unit so that losses can be paid on an individual unit basis, optional or basic, as applicable.
Unit value before loss.
The stage value of undamaged insurable clams in the basic or optional unit, as applicable, immediately prior to the loss occurrence. The determined value will include the number of seeded and harvested clams and stages that existed on the date of the inventory value report, adjusted for changes in accordance with subparagraph 22A(2) of the Insurance Standards Handbook, including but not limited to; the reference maximum dollar amount contained in the actuarial documents; and the applicable survival factors. This allows the amount of insurance under the policy to be divided among the individual units in accordance with the value of the clams in the unit at the time of loss for determining whether you are entitled to an indemnity for insured losses in the unit, optional or basic, as applicable. Clams that are seeded subsequent to the annual inventory value report being submitted must be adjusted by the survival factor before they are added to the beginning inventory during the process of establishing the “Unit value before loss.”

# 2. Unit Division
(a) In addition to the definition of basic unit contained in section 1 of the Basic
Provisions, a basic unit may be divided into optional units in accordance with section 2(b). Note that even if you elect optional unit coverage, amount of insurance, crop year deductible, under-report factor, premium, and the total amount of indemnity payable under this policy will be controlled by the basic unit value before loss.
(b) If you elect the additional level of coverage, for an additional premium, inventory that would otherwise be a basic unit may, unless limited by the Special Provisions, be divided into optional units by non-contiguous lease parcels. Additional optional units may also be authorized in the Special Provisions. If you elect optional units, you must provide separate inventory reports for each unit and keep all records of seeding, harvest, and uninsured losses separately by unit.
(c) Failure to keep or report separate records will result in all optional unit inventories under a basic unit being combined in a basic unit at loss time.
(d) If you elect optional units, your amount of insurance will be divided among optional units in relation to unit value before loss of clams in each optional unit. If, at the time of loss, the aggregate value of the clams in your optional units exceeds your basic
unit inventory value, you will be subject to the under-report factor provisions.

# 3. Amount of Insurance
(a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 of the Basic Provisions, you may only select one coverage level percentage for all clams, regardless of their stage, insured under this policy.
(b) Your amount of insurance will be reduced by the amount of any indemnity paid under this policy.
(c) For an additional premium, you may increase your amount of insurance in accordance with section 6(d).
(d) The production reporting requirements contained in section 3 of the Basic Provisions are not applicable.
(e) For seeded clams, the amount of insurance is the product of the reference maximum dollar amount of insurance and the fraction of the maximum value associated with the applicable stage multiplied by the coverage level selected multiplied by your share.

# 4. Contract Changes
In accordance with section 4 of the Basic Provisions, the contract change date is August 31 of each year, or as specified in the actuarial documents.

# 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
In accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, the cancellation and termination dates are November 30, or as specified in the actuarial documents.

# 6. Clam Inventory Value Report
In lieu of section 6 of the Basic Provisions:
(a) For insurance to attach for the crop year, you must submit an inventory value report to us with your application and for each subsequent crop year, not later than November 30 preceding the crop year, or by the date specified in the Special Provisions.
(b) The inventory value report must be submitted yearly and include, for each basic or optional unit all growing locations, the stages of the clams and the stage values, and your share by growing location.
(1) The inventory value must also reflect the stages as shown in the Special Provisions.
(2) At our option and at any time, you may be required to provide documentation in support of any of your reports, including, but not limited to, a detailed listing of growing locations, unit values, the numbers and the sizes of clams seeded or placed for grow-out; your share, sales of clams and purchases of seed clams for the 3 previous crop years, and of your ability to properly obtain and maintain clams.
(3) For catastrophic level policies only, you must report your clam sales for the previous crop year on the clam inventory value report. You may be required to provide documentation to support such sales.
(c) Your inventory value report, including any revised report, will be used to determine your premium and amount of insurance.
(d) If allowed for in the Special Provisions you may revise your inventory value report to increase the reported inventory value. We may inspect the inventory. Your revised inventory value report, if allowed by the Special Provisions, will be considered accepted by us and coverage will begin on any proposed increase in inventory value at the later of December 1, the date shown in the Special Provisions, or 30 days after your written request is received by us, unless we reject the proposed increase in your inventory value in writing. We will reject any requested increase if a loss occurs before the later of December 1, the date shown in the Special Provisions, or within 30 days of the date the request is made.
(e) Failure to report the full value of your stage value will result in the reduction of any claim in accordance with section 14(d).
(f) For catastrophic insurance coverage only: Your inventory value report for all clams cannot exceed the lesser of the value from section 6(b) or the percent shown on the actuarial documents of your previous year's sales of clams unless you provide acceptable records to prove your actual inventory value.
(g) Your inventory value report must reflect your insurable clam inventory according to the prices contained in
the actuarial documents. In no instance will we be liable for values greater than those contained in the actuarial documents.
(h) You must report all clams on the unit including any clams owned or subleased by other individuals or entities.
(i) No application or inventory value reports, except revisions, will be accepted after November 30, unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions.

# 7. Premium
(a) In lieu of section 7(c) of the Basic Provisions, we will determine your premium by multiplying the amount of insurance by the appropriate premium rate and by the premium adjustment factors listed on the actuarial documents.
(b) Additional premium from an increase in the inventory value report is due and payable when we accept the revised inventory value report.
(c) In addition to the provisions in section 7 of the Basic Provisions, the premium will be adjusted for partial crop years for the year of seeding and for clam leases you acquire. Premium will be charged for the entire month, as shown in the actuarial documents, for any month during which any amount of coverage is provided.

# 8. Insured Crop
In lieu of the provisions of section 8 and section 9 of the Basic Provisions, the insured crop is all the clams in the county that:
(a) Meet all the requirements for insurability and for which prices are provided in the actuarial documents;
(b) Are acceptable to us;
(c) Are grown by a person, who in at least three of the five previous crop years:
(1) Grew clams for commercial sale; and
(2) Participated in the management of a clam farming operation by at least exercising decision-making authority over all operational aspects of the farm.
(d) Are grown in a county for which a premium rate is provided in the actuarial documents;
(e) Are in a growing location acceptable to us and for which you provided GPS coordinates with your clam inventory value report in accordance with the Special Provisions; and
(f) Use a practice that fixes the insurable clams to the land within the growing location.

# 9. Insurance Period
(a) In accordance with section 11 of the Basic Provisions, coverage begins the later of:
(1) The date the pre-acceptance inspection, if applicable, is complete unless we notify you that your inventory is not insurable; or
(2) If your inventory is insurable:
(i) On December 1 for new applications, when the application and the inventory value report are submitted by October 30;
(ii) On the 31st day following the date of submission for new applications, when the application and the inventory value report are submitted between November 1 and 30;
(iii) On December 1 for policies continued from the prior year if the inventory value report is submitted by October 30;
(iv) On the 31st day following the date of submission of the inventory value report for policies continued from the prior year when the inventory value report is submitted between November 1 and 30; and
(v) However, you acquire a financial interest in any insurable clams after coverage begins, but after December 1 of the crop year, and our inspection determines that the clams are acceptable, insurance will be considered to have attached to such clams 30 days after a revised inventory report is accepted by us indicating the stage value of the acquired clams; or
(vi) On the date contained in the Special Provisions.
(b) Insurance ends at the earliest of:
(1) The date of final adjustment of a loss when the total indemnities due equal the amount of insurance;
(2) November 30; or
(3) A date specified in the Special Provisions. (c) Insurance ceases immediately on any clams removed from the unit.

# 10. Causes of Loss
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the Basic Provisions, insurance is provided for the death of clams caused only by the following causes of loss that occur within the insurance period unless otherwise limited by the Special Provisions:
(1) Oxygen depletion due to vegetation, microbial activity, harmful algae bloom, or high water temperature unless otherwise limited by the Special Provisions;
(2) Disease, if medication does not exist for control of the disease;
(3) Freeze;
(4) Hurricane;
(5) Decrease in salinity associated with a weather event verified by National Oceanic
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) or United States Geologic Survey (USGS) or as otherwise defined in the Special Provisions;
(6) Tidal wave;
(7) Storm surge that is associated with a local weather event and verified by NOAA or USGS; or
(8) Ice floe.
(b) In addition to the causes of loss excluded in section 12 of the Basic Provisions, we do not insure against any loss caused by:
(1) Your inability to market clams as a direct result of quarantine, shellfish harvest ban, boycott, or refusal of a buyer to accept production;
(2) Collapse or failure of buildings or structures;
(3) Loss of market value;
(4) Vandalism;
(5) Theft;
(6) Pollution;
(7) Predation (unless allowed by the Special Provisions);
(8) Dredging;
(9) Any cause of loss that occurred prior to or after the insurance period;
(10) Any unexplained shortages or disappearance of inventory; or
(11) Failure of the clam to grow to a marketable size.

# 11. Replanting Payments
Unless otherwise stated in the Special Provisions:
(a) In accordance with the provisions contained in section 13 of the Basic Provisions, a replanting payment is allowed for insurable clams if death of the clams was due to an insurable cause of loss.
(b) The maximum amount of the replanting payment will be the lesser of your actual cost of replanting or the result obtained by multiplying the replanting payment amount contained in the Special Provisions by your insured share.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 13 of the Basic Provisions, only one replanting payment will be made per lease parcel planted within the crop year.
(d) You may not collect a replant payment and an indemnity for the same loss.

# 12. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss
In addition to your duties contained in section 14 of the Basic Provisions,
(a) You must obtain our written consent prior to changing or discontinuing your normal practices with respect to care and maintenance of the insured clams. Failure to obtain our written consent will result in the denial of your claim.
(b) If you are claiming disease as the cause of loss, you must prove at your own expense that the death of the clams was due to disease by isolating a sample of the clams and identifying the disease following histological or pathological examination conducted by a veterinarian who is a certified fish pathologist or a person approved by us.

# 13. Access to Insured Crop and Records, and Records Retention
In addition to the requirements of section 21 of the Basic Provisions, you must permit us to inspect the insurable clams at any time and take samples of damaged and undamaged clams for inspection, testing, and analysis, and examine and make copies of your records.

# 14. Settlement of Claim
We will determine indemnities for any unit as follows:
(a) Determine the under-report factor for the basic unit;
(b) Determine the occurrence deductible;
(c) Subtract unit value after loss from unit value before loss;
(d) Multiply the result of 14(c) by the under-report factor;
(e) Subtract the occurrence deductible from the result in section 14(d); and
(f) If the result of section 14(e) is greater than zero, and subject to the limit of section 14(g);
(1) For other than catastrophic risk protection coverage, your indemnity equals the result of section 14(e), multiplied by your share.
(2) For catastrophic risk protection coverage, your indemnity equals the result of section 14(e) multiplied by 55 percent, multiplied by your share.
(g) The total of all indemnities for the crop year will not exceed the amount of insurance.

# 15. Late Planting
Provisions of section 16 of the Basic Provisions do not apply.

# 16. Prevented Planting
Provisions of section 17 of the Basic Provisions do not apply.

# 17. Loss Examples

# Single Unit Loss Example
Assume you have a 100 percent share, the inventory value reported by you is $100,000, and your coverage level is 75 percent. Your amount of insurance is $75,000 ($100,000 × .75). At the time of loss, unit value before loss is $95,000, unit value after loss is $30,000 and basic unit value before loss is $100,000. The deductible percentage is 25 percent (100−75), the crop year deductible is $25,000 (.25 × $100,000). Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
Step (1) Determine the under-report factor; $100,000 ÷ $95,000 = 1.000;
Step (2) Determine the occurrence deductible; .25 × $95,000 × 1.000 = $23,750;
Step (3) Calculate the difference between unit value before loss and unit value after loss; $95,000−$30,000 = $65,000;
Step (4) Result of step 3 multiplied by the underreport factor (step 1); $65,000 × 1.000 = $65,000;
Step (5) Result of step 4 minus the occurrence deductible; $65,000−$23,750 = $41,250;
Step (6) Result of step 5 multiplied by your share; $41,250 × 1.000 = $41,250 indemnity payment.

# Multiple Unit Multiple Loss Example
Assume you have a 100 percent share, the inventory value reported by you is $100,000, and your coverage level is 75 percent. You have two optional units, unit 1 and unit 2. Your amount of insurance is $75,000 ($100,000 × .75). You have a loss on unit 1 and no loss on unit 2. At the time of loss, unit value before loss on unit 1 is $60,000, unit value after loss on unit 1 is $18,000 and basic unit value before loss is $125,000. The deductible percentage is 25 percent (100−75), the crop year deductible is $25,000 (.25 × $100,000). Your indemnity would be calculated as follows:
Step (1) Determine the under-report factor; $100,000 ÷ $125,000 = .80;
Step (2) Determine the occurrence deductible; .25 × $60,000 × .80 = $12,000;
Step (3) Calculate the difference between unit value before loss and unit value after loss; $60,000−$18,000 = $42,000;
Step (4) Result of step 3 multiplied by the underreport factor (step 1); $42,000 × .80 = $33,600;
Step (5) Result of step 4 minus the occurrence deductible; $33,600−$12,000 = $21,600;
Step (6) Result of step 5 multiplied by your share; $21,600 × 1.000 = $21,600 indemnity payment.
Your crop year deductible is reduced to $13,000 ($25,000−$12,000). Your amount of insurance is reduced to $53,400 ($75,000−$21,600). You do not restock unit 1 after the first loss. Values on unit 2 do not change from those measured at the time of the loss on unit 1. Assume you have a loss later in the crop year on unit 2. Unit value before loss on unit 2 is $65,000, unit value after loss on unit 2 is $0.00 and basic unit value before loss on the basic unit is $83,000. Your loss would be determined as follows:
Step (1) Determine the remaining amount of insurance; $100,000−$33,600 = $66,400;
Step (2) Determine the under-report factor; $66,400 ÷ $83,000 = .800;
Step (3) Determine the occurrence deductible; $25,000−$12,000 = $13,000;
Step (4) Calculate the difference between unit value before loss and unit value after loss; $65,000−$0.00 = $65,000;
Step (5) Result of step 4 multiplied by the underreport factor (step 2); $65,000 × .800 = $52,000;
Step (6) Result of step 5 minus the occurrence deductible; $52,000−$13,000 = $39,000;
Step (7) Result of step 6 multiplied by your share; $39,000 × 1.000 = $39,000 indemnity payment.
[82 FR 61135, Dec. 27, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 16767, Apr. 17, 2018]
PARTS 458-459 [RESERVED]
Pt. 460

# PART 460—ADDITIONAL DISASTER PAYMENTS

# Subpart A—Prevented Planting Supplemental Disaster Payments
Sec.
460.1
Applicability.
460.2
Definitions.
460.3
Eligibility and qualifying causes of loss.
460.4
Calculating prevented planting supplemental disaster payments.
460.5
Timing and issuance of payments and payment limitations.
460.6
Adjusted prevented planting supplemental disaster payments and repayment.
460.7
Requirement to purchase crop insurance.

# Subpart B—Pandemic Cover Crop Program
460.8
Applicability.
460.9
Definitions.
460.10
Eligibility.
460.11
Calculating PCCP amounts for first insured crops.
460.12
Calculating PCCP amounts for WFRP.
460.13
Accounting for PCCP amounts.
Subpart C—[Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1506(i) and 1506(o); and Division N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260).

# Source:
84 FR 48527, Sept. 13, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Prevented Planting Supplemental Disaster Payments
§ 460.1
Applicability.
This subpart specifies the terms and conditions of prevented planting supplemental disaster payments. Prevented planting supplemental disaster payments provide additional compensation to producers prevented from planting crops insured under crop insurance policy reinsured by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) due to disaster related conditions. Prevented planting supplemental disaster payments are applicable to 2019 crop year crops prevented from planting in 2019, as determined by the Risk Management Agency (RMA).
§ 460.2
Definitions.
Approved Insurance Provider (AIP)
means a legal entity which has entered into a reinsurance agreement with FCIC for the applicable reinsurance year and is authorized to sell and service policies or plans of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act.
Assignment of Indemnity
means a transfer of crop insurance policy rights whereby a policyholder assigns rights to an indemnity payment for the crop year to creditors or other persons to whom they have a financial debt or other pecuniary obligation.
Crop insurance policy
means an insurance policy reinsured by FCIC under the provisions of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. It does not include private plans of insurance.
Crop year
means the period within which the insured crop is normally grown and is designated by the calendar year in which the insured crop is normally harvested.
Federal Crop Insurance Act
means the legal authority codified in 7 U.S.C. 1501-1524.
Final planting date
means the latest date, established by RMA for each insurable crop, by which the crop must initially be planted in order to be insured for the full production guarantee or amount of insurance per acre.
FCIC
means the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, a wholly owned Government Corporation of USDA that administers the Federal crop insurance program.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency.
Insured crop
means a crop for which the participant has purchased a crop insurance policy from an AIP.
NAP
means the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) and part 1437 of this title and administered by FSA.
Person
has the same meaning as defined in § 457.8(1) of this title.
Prevent plant base factor
means the value announced by the Secretary used to calculate the payment for crops covered under a plan of insurance that is not a revenue protection plan of insurance, or is a revenue protection plan of insurance with the harvest price exclusion elected.
Prevent plant revenue factor
means value announced by the Secretary used to calculate the payment for crops covered under a plan of insurance that provides revenue protection unless the harvest price exclusion is elected for that crop.
Prevented planting
means the inability to plant an insured crop with proper equipment during the planting period as a result of an insured cause of loss, as determined by the AIP.
Prevented planting payment
means a payment made under a crop insurance policy to compensate the policyholder when they are prevented from planting an insured crop.
Qualifying prevented planting payment
means a prevented planting payment made under a crop insurance policy that qualifies for a prevented planting supplemental disaster payment, as specified in this subpart.
Revenue protection
has the same meaning as defined in § 457.8(1) of this title.
Second crop
has the same meaning as defined in § 457.8(1) of this title.
§ 460.3
Eligibility and qualifying causes of loss.
(a) To be eligible for a payment under this subpart, the participant must be a person that is eligible to receive Federal benefits and has purchased a crop insurance policy for the insured crop from an AIP.
(1) Participants will be eligible to receive a payment in this subpart only if they were prevented from planting an insured crop due to a qualifying cause of loss, as further specified in this subpart.
(2) A person is not eligible to receive benefits in this subpart if at any time that person is determined to be ineligible for crop insurance.
(b) Insured crops that are eligible for a payment under this subpart are those crops for which the final planting date for the 2019 crop year crop insurance policy is in the 2019 calendar year, as specified by the Administrator.
(1) For insured crops with more than one final planting date in the county, only those types or practices with a final planting date in the 2019 calendar year are eligible for payment under this subpart.
(2) Participants who are in violation of Highly Erodible Land or Wetlands Conservation (16 U.S.C. 3811-12, 3821) for Federal crop insurance are not eligible for payment under this subpart.
(c) A prevented planting payment will only be considered a qualifying prevented planting payment if the participant is prevented from planting the insured crop due to one of the following causes of loss:
(1) Excess precipitation;
(2) Flood;
(3) Cold wet weather;
(4) Storm surge;
(5) Tornado;
(6) Volcanic activity; and
(7) Tropical depression, hurricane, or cyclone.
(d) A prevented planting payment received for failure to plant due to any cause not included in paragraph (c) of this section is not considered a qualifying prevented planting payment for the purpose of this subpart.
§ 460.4
Calculating prevented planting supplemental disaster payments.
(a) For insured crops covered under a crop insurance policy with a revenue protection plan of insurance that does not have the harvest price exclusion elected, the payment under this subpart for each insured crop will be calculated by summing the qualifying prevented planting payments for that insured crop and multiplying the total by the prevent plant revenue factor.
(b) For all other insured crops, the payment under this subpart for each insured crop will be calculated by summing the qualifying prevented planting payments for that insured crop and multiplying the total by the prevent plant base factor.
(c) If a qualifying prevented planting payment is reduced for any reason, such as the participant planting a second crop, the payment under this subpart will be based on the amount of the qualifying prevented planting payment after any such reduction.
§ 460.5
Timing and issuance of payments and payment limitations.
(a) The payment under this subpart will be issued, for each crop, to the same person or persons that received the qualifying prevented planting payment for that crop:
(1) If the insured has an assignment of indemnity in effect on the insured crop, the payment under this subpart will be made jointly in the name of the insured and all applicable assignees.
(2) In cases where there has been a death, disappearance, judicially declared incompetence, or dissolution of any insured person any payment under this subpart will be paid to the person or persons determined to be entitled to the qualifying prevented planting payment.
(b) Any payments under this subpart will be made by USDA in a manner and at a time determined by the Administrator.
(c) The total amount of payments received for prevented planting supplemental disaster payments under this subpart, applicable crop insurance policy indemnities, NAP payments, and any other applicable disaster relief payment will not exceed 90 percent of the loss as determined by the Secretary.
(d) The payment limitations stated in 7 CFR 760.1507 are not applicable to prevented planting supplemental disaster payments.
§ 460.6
Adjusted prevented planting supplemental disaster payments and repayment.
(a) In the event that any payment under this subpart is determined to be incorrect due to a change in a qualifying prevented planting payment, erroneous information, or a miscalculation, the payment will be recalculated until October 9, 2020, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. After that date, the payment under this subpart will be final except in cases of fraud, scheme, or device, or failure to purchase crop insurance as specified in § 460.8.
(b) In the event that the qualifying prevented planting payment is adjusted after payment under this subpart has been issued and that adjustment results in:
(1) A higher qualifying prevented planting payment, the amount of payment will be increased to the amount determined to be correct; or
(2) A lower qualifying prevented planting payment, the amount of payment will be decreased to the amount determined to be correct and the participant will be required to repay, with interest if applicable, any excess payment already received.
(c) All persons with a financial interest in the person receiving payments under this subpart are jointly and severally liable for any refund, including related charges, which is determined to be due.
(d) Interest will accrue at the annual rate of 1.25 percent simple interest per calendar month. Interest will start to accrue on the first day of the month following the notification of the amount to be refunded, provided that a minimum of 30 days has passed from the date the notification was issued.
§ 460.7
Requirement to purchase crop insurance.
(a) For the first 2 consecutive crop years after receiving a payment under this subpart:
(1) A participant who receives a payment under this subpart for prevented planting for a crop in a county must obtain crop insurance for all acres planted to that crop in that county; or
(2) If crop insurance is no longer available for the crop in that county, the participant must obtain NAP coverage if available for the applicable crop year. A participant will only be considered to have obtained NAP coverage for the purposes of this section if the participant paid the NAP service
fee and any premium by the applicable deadline and complied with all program requirements.
(b) If a participant fails to obtain crop insurance or NAP coverage as required in paragraph (a) of this section, the participant must reimburse the full amount of the payment under this subpart received for the applicable crop, plus interest calculated from the date of disbursement.

# Subpart B—Pandemic Cover Crop Program

# Source:
87 FR 7929, Feb. 12, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 460.8
Applicability.
(a) This subpart specifies the terms and conditions of the Pandemic Cover Crop Program (PCCP).
(b) For the 2022 crop year, PCCP premium support is available to eligible producers for eligible insured acres on a crop insurance policy for a first insured crop on which the producer planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, of the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year.
(1) For the 2022 crop year, in states administering a cover crop program providing premium subsidy under an active Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with RMA, as authorized by section 508(c)(8) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, insured acres qualifying for a state premium subsidy amount are eligible for a matching amount under PCCP.
(2) For the 2022 crop year, additional PCCP premium support is available to eligible producers for eligible Whole Farm Revenue Protection (WFRP) acres on which the producer planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, of the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year.
§ 460.9
Definitions.
Approved Insurance Provider (AIP)
means a legal entity that has entered into a reinsurance agreement with the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) for the applicable reinsurance year and is authorized to sell and service policies or plans of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act.
Crop insurance policy
means an insurance policy reinsured by FCIC under the provisions of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. It does not include private plans of insurance.
Crop year
means the period within which the insured crop is normally grown and is designated by the calendar year in which the insured crop is normally harvested.
Eligible insured acres
means insured acres on which the producer planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, during the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year, as reported on the Farm Service Agency's (FSA) common land unit(s) (CLU) to FSA via a completed and signed Form 578-Report of Acreage on or before March 15, 2022, or May 31, 2022, for 2022 crop year qualifying cover crops planted after March 15, 2022, which may be prior to FSA's acreage reporting date, and reported the same CLU(s) on their crop insurance acreage report by the applicable Federal crop insurance acreage reporting date for a 2022 crop year crop insurance policy for a first insured crop.
Eligible WFRP acres
means acres on which a person with a 2022 crop year WFRP policy planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, during the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year, as reported on the CLU(s) to FSA via a completed and signed Form 578-Report of Acreage on or before March 15, 2022, or May 31, 2022, for 2022 crop year qualifying cover crops planted after March 15, 2022, which may be prior to FSA's acreage reporting date.
Eligible producer
means a producer meeting all of the eligibility requirements for PCCP.
FCIC
means the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, a wholly owned Government Corporation of USDA that administers the Federal crop insurance program.
First insured crop
means, with respect to a single crop year and any specific crop acreage, the first instance that an agricultural commodity is planted for harvest or prevented from being planted and is insured under the authority of the Federal Crop Insurance Act.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency, USDA.
FSA Common Land Unit (CLU)
means the smallest unit of land that has a
permanent, contiguous boundary, common land cover and land management, common owner, and common producer association.
Insured acres
means the participant's share of insurable acreage that is insured in accordance with a crop insurance policy purchased from an AIP.
Insured crop
means a crop for which the participant has purchased a crop insurance policy from an AIP.
MOU
means Memorandum of Understanding.
PCCP
means Pandemic Cover Crop Program.
Person
means a person as defined in 7 CFR 457.8(1).
Qualifying cover crop
means any of the four types of cover crops:
(1) Cereals and other grasses;
(2) Legumes;
(3) Brassicas; and
(4) Other non-legume broadleaves, and mixtures of two or more cover crop species planted at the same time. An insured crop is not considered a qualifying cover crop.
RMA
means the Risk Management Agency, USDA.
USDA
means United States Department of Agriculture.
WFRP
means Whole Farm Revenue Protection.
[87 FR 7929, Feb. 12, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 15839, Mar. 21, 2022]
§ 460.10
Eligibility.
(a) For the 2022 crop year, to be eligible for premium support under PCCP, the participant must be a person who is eligible to receive Federal benefits and who has purchased a crop insurance policy for a first insured crop from an AIP for insured acres on which the participant planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, during the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year.
(1) Cover crops must be specifically reported to FSA via the Form-578 with the corresponding crop code.
(2) Potential participants that are uncertain of whether their cover crop was reported to the FSA are encouraged to contact their local FSA county office (
http://farmers.gov/service-locator
).
(3) Only acreage reports that are filed or amended prior to March 15, 2022, (or May 31, 2022, for 2022 crop year qualifying cover crops planted after March 15, 2022), will be considered for PCCP.
(b) Participants who are in violation of Highly Erodible Land or Wetlands Conservation (16 U.S.C. 3811, 3812, and 3821) are not eligible to receive benefits under PCCP.
(c) A person is not eligible to receive benefits under PCCP if at any time that person is determined to be ineligible for crop insurance.
(d) Supplemental Coverage Option, Enhanced Coverage Option, Post-Application Coverage Endorsement, and Hurricane Insurance Protection—Wind Index policies or endorsements are not eligible for PCCP.
(e) Stacked Income Protection Plan (STAX) and Margin Protection (MP) policies are only eligible for PCCP when insured as a standalone policy. STAX and MP endorsements to underlying polices are not eligible for PCCP.
[87 FR 7929, Feb. 12, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 15839, Mar. 21, 2022]
§ 460.11
Calculating PCCP amounts for first insured crops.
(a) For the 2022 crop year, for eligible insured acres covered under a crop insurance policy for a first insured crop, the amount of premium support under PCCP for each insured acre will be $5, calculated on a CLU basis, with a maximum equal to the amount of premium owed by the insured.
(b) For the 2022 crop year, in states administering a cover crop program providing premium subsidy under an active MOU with RMA, as authorized by Section 508(c)(8) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, insured acres qualifying for a state premium subsidy amount are eligible for a matching amount under PCCP, calculated on a CLU basis, which may be in addition to the amount in paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) The matching amount under PCCP per insured acre will be equal to the state contribution per insured acre on a CLU basis.
(2) The matching amount under PCCP per insured acre will be limited by the amount of premium owed by the insured on a CLU basis. If limited, the state contribution amount and matching PCCP amount will be reduced proportionately on a CLU basis.
(c) Amounts under PCCP are limited to the full amount of premium owed by the insured for the eligible insured acres on a CLU basis. If the full amount under PCCP would result in a negative premium balance for the insured on a CLU basis, PCCP amounts will be limited to the full amount of premium owed on a CLU basis, with the amount calculated in paragraph (b) of this section being applied first and the amount calculated in paragraph (a) of this section being applied second.
(1) In cases where insureds are eligible for both paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and premium owed on a CLU basis is less than the amount in paragraph (b) of this section, the state contribution amount and matching PCCP amount in paragraph (b) of this section will be reduced proportionally on a CLU basis, and there will be no PCCP premium support amount applied in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) In cases where insureds are eligible for both paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and premium owed on a CLU basis is greater than the amount in paragraph (b) of this section but less than the sum of the amounts in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, there will be no reduction to the state contribution amount and matching PCCP amount in paragraph (b) of this section, and the PCCP premium support amount in paragraph (a) of this section will be reduced.
(d) If the eligible insured acres are adjusted or revised for any reason, such as an overreporting of insured acres, the amount under PCCP will be based on the eligible insured acres after any such amendment.
§ 460.12
Calculating PCCP amounts for WFRP.
(a) For the 2022 crop year, for eligible WFRP acres, the amount of premium support under PCCP for each acre will be $5, with a maximum equal to the amount of WFRP premium owed by the insured.
(b) PCCP amounts for WFRP are limited to the full amount of premium owed by the insured for the WFRP policy. If the full amount under PCCP would result in a negative premium balance for the insured, PCCP amounts will be limited to the full amount of premium owed.
(c) If the eligible WFRP acres are adjusted or revised for any reason, such as an overreporting of planted cover crop acres, the amount under PCCP will be based on the eligible WFRP acres after any such amendment.
§ 460.13
Accounting for PCCP amounts.
(a) The amount under PCCP will not be paid directly to eligible producers. FCIC and AIPs will account for the amount when calculating total producer premium due. AIPs will adjust participant bills accordingly. All bills follow the same terms and conditions specified in the crop insurance policy, regardless of PCCP amounts.
(b) PCCP premium support will be provided via premium billing adjustments by the applicable RMA premium billing date for the insured crop.
(c) PCCP premium support is available both for eligible insured acres and for eligible WFRP acres associated with the same planted acreage of qualifying cover crops.
(d) The payment limitations in 7 CFR 760.1507 are not applicable to PCCP.
(e) RMA will obtain cover crop records from FSA and determine eligibility such that eligible producers do not need to take any additional specific action through their crop insurance agent to enroll in the PCCP.
(1) In the event that any PCCP amount is determined to be incorrect, the amount will be recalculated until the 2022 reinsurance year annual settlement date of October 6, 2023, unless otherwise specified by the RMA Administrator.
(2) After October 6, 2023, the amount will be final except in cases of misrepresentation, fraud, scheme, or device.
Subpart C—[Reserved]
PARTS 461-499 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. V (1-1-25 Edition)
Agricultural Research Service, USDA

# CHAPTER V—AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
500
National Arboretum
437
501
Conduct on U.S. Meat Animal Research Center, Clay Center, Nebraska
442
502
Conduct on Beltsville Agriculture Research Center Property, Beltsville, Maryland
445
503
Conduct on Plum Island Animal Disease Center
447
504
User fees
449
505
National Agricultural Library fees for loans and copying
450
510
Public information
450
520
Procedures for implementing National Environmental Policy Act
451
550
General administrative policy for non-assistance cooperative agreements
454
551-599
[Reserved]
Pt. 500

# PART 500—NATIONAL ARBORETUM

# Subpart A—Conduct on U.S. National Arboretum Property
Sec.
500.1
General.
500.2
Recording presence.
500.3
Preservation of property.
500.4
Conformity with signs and emergency directions.
500.5
Nuisances.
500.6
Gambling.
500.7
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
500.8
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
500.9
Photographs for news or advertising.
500.10
Pets.
500.11
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
500.12
Weapons and explosives.
500.13
Nondiscrimination.
500.14
Exceptions.
500.15
Penalties and other law.

# Subpart B—Fee Schedule for Certain Uses of National Arboretum Facilities and Grounds
500.20
Scope.
500.21
Fee schedule for tram and tours.
500.22
Fees and conditions for use of facilities and grounds.
500.23
Fees for commercial photography and cinematography on grounds.
500.24
Fee schedule.
500.25
Payment of fees.

# Authority:
20 U.S.C. 196(a); sub secs. 2, 4, 5; 40 U.S.C. 121(d); 40 U.S.C. 1315(c).

# Source:
70 FR 55708, Sept. 23, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Conduct on U.S. National Arboreturm Property
§ 500.1
General.
The rules and regulations in this part apply to the buildings and grounds of the U.S. National Arboretum (USNA), Washington, DC, and to all persons entering in or on such property. The Administrator, General Services Administration, has delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture, with authority to further delegate, the authority to make all the needful rules and regulations for the protection of the buildings and grounds of the USNA (34 FR 6406). The Secretary of Agriculture has in turn delegated such authority to the Administrator, Agricultural Research Service (34 FR 7389). The rules and regulations in this part are issued pursuant to such delegations.
§ 500.2
Recording presence.
Admission to the USNA during periods when it is closed to the public will be limited to authorized individuals who may be required to sign the register or display identification documents when requested by the Security Staff, or other authorized individuals.
§ 500.3
Preservation of property.
(a) While at the USNA, it is unlawful to:
(1) Willfully destroy, damage, or remove USNA property or any part thereof;
(2) Set or maintain any open fire on the property of the USNA; however, the use of small candles may be approved at the discretion of the Director, USNA; or
(3) Apply any type of insecticide or herbicide on the grounds of the USNA, except for USNA employees in the course of their official duties or other persons authorized by the Director, USNA.
(b) Persons not employed by USNA are not permitted to bring biological agents of any kind, including but not limited to disease and pest agents of plants, onto the property without written permission of the Director, USNA.
§ 500.4
Conformity with signs and emergency directions.
Persons in and on property of the USNA shall comply with official signs of prohibitory or directive nature and with the directions of authorized individuals.
§ 500.5
Nuisances.
(a) The use of loud, abusive, or otherwise improper language; unwarranted loitering, sleeping, or assembly; the creation of any hazard to persons or things; improper disposal of rubbish; spitting; prurient prying; the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other unseemly or disorderly conduct; throwing articles of any kind from a building, and climbing upon any part of a building is prohibited.
(b) Playing of music or creation of other noises of a decibel level high
enough to be heard outside of the USNA is prohibited.
§ 500.6
Gambling.
Participating in games for money or other personal property, or the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, or the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets, in or on USNA property, is prohibited.
§ 500.7
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
(a) Entering USNA property or the operation of a motor vehicle thereon, by a person under the influence of intoxicating beverages or a narcotic drug, is prohibited.
(b) Except as provided in subpart B of this part, possession of or consumption of intoxicating beverages on USNA property is prohibited.
(c) The sale of alcoholic beverages on the grounds of the USNA is prohibited.
(d) The possession of or use of narcotic drugs on the grounds of the USNA is prohibited.
§ 500.8
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
(a) The following activities are prohibited on USNA grounds:
(1) Soliciting of alms or contributions;
(2) Display or distribution of commercial advertising;
(3) Collecting private debts;
(4) Campaigning for election to any office;
(5) Soliciting and vending for commercial purposes (including, but not limited to, the vending of newspapers and other publications);
(6) Soliciting signatures on petitions, polls, or surveys (except as authorized by the USNA); and
(7) Impeding ingress to or egress from the USNA.
(b) Distribution to USNA general public visitors of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval of the Director, USNA.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to:
(1) Commercial or nonprofit activities performed under contract or concession with the USNA or pursuant to the provisions of the Randolph Sheppard Act;
(2) The solicitation of USNA personnel for contributions for the Combined Federal Campaign (CFC);
(3) National or local drives for funds for welfare, health, and other purposes sponsored or approved by the Agricultural Research Service; or
(4) Personal notices posted by employees on authorized bulletin boards.
§ 500.9
Photographs for news or advertising.
Photographs for news purposes may be taken at the USNA without prior permission. Photographs for advertising and other commercial purposes may be taken, but only with the prior approval of the Director, USNA and fees may be charged pursuant to § 500.23.
§ 500.10
Pets.
Pets brought upon USNA property must have proper vaccinations and, except assistance trained animals, must be kept on leash at all times. The release or abandonment of fish, plants, and animals of any kind on USNA grounds is prohibited.
§ 500.11
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(a) Drivers of all vehicles in or on USNA property shall drive only on established roads, shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times, and shall comply with the signals and directions of the Security Staff and all posted traffic signs.
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants, and parking in designated no parking areas in or on USNA property is prohibited.
(c) Except in emergencies, parking in or on USNA property in other than designated areas is not allowed without a permit. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or contrary to the direction of posted signs, is prohibited.
(d) USNA approval is required for all vehicles needed for access setup and
breakdown activities relating to special events, ceremonies, or related activities. Off-road routes will be determined by the USNA.
(e) In addition to the penalties provided in § 500.15, vehicles parked in violation of this section are subject to being towed and the cost of such towing being assessed to the owner of such vehicle.
(f) This section may be supplemented from time to time, by the issuance and posting of specific traffic directives as may be required, and when so issued and posted such directives shall have the same force and effect as if incorporated in this subpart.
§ 500.12
Weapons and explosives.
(a) No person while in or on USNA property shall carry firearms, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except for authorized official purposes.
(b) No person while in or on the USNA shall ignite fireworks or other pyrotechnical devices.
§ 500.13
Nondiscrimination.
The USNA is subject to the policy of nondiscrimination in programs or activities conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture as set forth in 7 CFR part 15d.
§ 500.14
Exceptions.
The Administrator, Agricultural Research Service, may in individual cases make prior, written exceptions to the rules and regulations in this part if it is determined to be not adverse to the public interest.
§ 500.15
Penalties and other law.
Whoever shall be found guilty of violating the rules and regulations in this subpart is subject to fine under title 18, United States Code, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both (see 40 U.S.C. 1315(c)). Nothing contained in the rules and regulations in this part shall be construed as abrogating or authorizing the abrogation of any other regulations or any Federal law or any laws and regulations of the District of Columbia that may be applicable.

# Subpart B—Fee Schedule for Certain Uses of National Arboretum Facilities and Grounds
§ 500.20
Scope.
This subpart sets forth schedules of fees for temporary use by individuals or groups of United States National Arboretum (USNA) facilities and grounds. This subpart also sets forth schedules of fees for the use of the USNA for commercial photography and cinematography. Fees generated will be used to offset costs of services or for the purposes of promoting the mission of the USNA. All rules and regulations noted in 7 CFR 500, subpart A—Conduct on the U.S. National Arboretum Property, will apply to individuals or groups granted approval to use the facilities and grounds for the purposes specified in this subpart.
§ 500.21
Fee schedule for tram and tours.
The USNA provides tours of the USNA grounds in a 48-passenger tram (accommodating 2 wheelchairs). The fee is as follows: $4.00 per adult, $3.00 per senior citizen or Friend of the National Arboretum, and $2.00 per child under the age 17. Children under 4 sharing a seat with an adult will not be charged. Pre-scheduled tram tours for groups may be arranged for a set fee of $125.00. Additionally, a tour guide may be pre-arranged to provide a non-tram tour for the fee of $50 per hour. Promotional programs offering discounted fees for these programs may be instituted at the discretion of the USNA. Payment for use of the tram is due at the time of ticket purchase. Payment for pre-scheduled tram tours must be made at least one week in advance. Payment for pre-scheduled, non-tram guided tours must be made at least one week in advance of the tour date.
§ 500.22
Fees and conditions for use of facilities and grounds.
(a)
Fee requirement.
(1) The USNA will charge a fee for temporary use by individuals or groups of USNA facilities and grounds. Fees for specific sites are listed in § 500.24.
(2) Non-profit scientific or educational organizations whose purposes and interests are complementary to
the mission of the USNA and which substantially support the mission and purpose of the USNA (e.g., Friends of the National Arboretum, National Bonsai Foundation, National Capital Area Federation of Garden Clubs, Herb Society of America) may be exempted from the fee for use of USNA facility or grounds requirement of this subpart by the Director, but still must reimburse the USNA for its costs, including setup, clean-up, security, and other costs as applicable.
(3) A Half Day usage is defined as 4 hours or less; a Whole Day usage is defined as more than 4 hours in a day. In all cases, usage includes all time during which a venue is committed, including time used to set up before and clean up after an event. For after-hours usage of sites or facilities, an additional $40/hour will be added for supervision for each required staff member or security officer, with higher amounts required for sites or facilities that are more sensitive.
(b)
Reservations.
(1) Facilities and grounds are available by reservation at the discretion of the Director of the USNA and may be available to individuals or groups for uses that are consistent with the mission of the USNA. Agency initiatives may be granted first priority. Offices and hallways inside secured doors will not be available for use.
(2) Reservations to use USNA facilities and grounds may be made directly with the USNA. To ensure consideration, reservation requests should be made as far in advance as possible with a minimum of 15 calendar days prior to the date of use required for all reservations. This advanced notice will provide the USNA adequate time to prepare sites and assign staff and supervision as necessary.
(3) The USNA will make every effort to respond to requests in a quick and timely fashion. The USNA will respond to reservation requests within 5 working days with information as to whether the requested site is available for use. The USNA will also give notice to the prospective user of any planned activities (construction, maintenance, pesticide applications, and any similar activities) that might affect the planned use or event.
(4) A 50 percent non-refundable deposit will be due at the time of a booking in order to reserve a specific date and location. The remaining 50 percent is due five working days prior to the event.
(c)
Terms and conditions of use.
(1) The USNA provides space, water, and electrical hookup when available, and restrooms where available. Users must provide all tents, tables, chairs, trash receptacles, or other property required for the scheduled event. Users must remove all trash from the property at the conclusion of the event. Users must remove all tents, tables and chairs, and other property no later than 5:00 p.m. of the day following the event. The USNA will charge a facility use and break down fee of $500.00 per day for each day following the deadline to remove temporary facilities and equipment. The USNA will not store temporary facilities or equipment for users.
(2) Users must abide by USNA vehicle regulations in § 500.11 including the requirement to obtain USNA approval whenever off road access is required for setup.
(3) The USNA will not assume any responsibility for last minute changes due to failure of current mechanical systems, severe storms and other weather events, emergencies relating to security and safety.
(4) Some events that involve bringing animals and certain plants onto the USNA property may not be compatible with the plant research, display, and education mission of the USNA. Such events will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and exceptions may be made by the Director of the USNA.
(5) Music and bands will be permitted but the decibel level of music should not be loud enough to be heard outside the boundaries of the USNA.
(6) (i) A refundable deposit as specified in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section for use of the facility or grounds, excluding the classroom, will be collected in advance. In the event of building, property, or grounds damage or excessive cleaning requirements, the deposit will be used for repair and remediation and the balance will be refunded within 30 days of the event date.
In the event that cleaning requirements or damage to the building, property or grounds exceeds the amount of the refundable deposit, the deposit will be used in full, with additional charges billed and due within 30 days of billing. Damages to plants, grounds, facilities, or equipment will be assessed on a value based on replacement costs, including labor.
(ii)
Refundable Deposit Schedule.
Event fee
Refundable
deposit
required
$15,000-10,000
$2,000
$9,999-5,000
1,000
$4,999 and less
500
(7) Upon prior request, the Director may approve the consumption of beer and wine during uses of USNA pursuant to this section. Such permission generally will not be granted during times when USNA is open to the public. Director approval shall be conditioned upon compliance by users and by any of their agents or contractors, with all applicable provisions of the District of Columbia Code governing sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, including the rules of the District of Columbia Department of Consumer Affairs, Alcoholic Beverage Regulation Administration.
(8) All users of the USNA pursuant to this subpart, as well as all those contracting with such users of the USNA, shall comply with all Federal and local laws.
(9) The USNA is a Federal property under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Agriculture.
All activities are subject to Federal rules and regulations governing the use of public buildings and grounds.
(10) The USNA will not be responsible for any damage or loss suffered by an individual, group, or their contractor during a permitted event at the USNA.
(11) The Director may impose additional incidental terms and conditions concerning the use of the USNA facilities consistent with this part.
(12) Marriage ceremonies and accompanying receptions may only be held in the Dogwood Collection.
§ 500.23
Fees for commercial photography and cinematography on grounds.
The USNA may charge a fee for the use of the facility or grounds for purposes of commercial photography or cinematography as specified in § 500.24. Facilities and grounds are available for use for commercial photography or cinematography at the discretion of the USNA Director. Requests for use should be made a minimum of two weeks in advance of the required date. The USNA will charge for supervision costs at the rate of $40.00 per hour per security officer, in addition to the fees listed below. The USNA Director may waive fees for photography or cinematography conducted for the purpose of disseminating information to the public regarding the USNA and its mission or for the purpose of First Amendment activity. The USNA will charge a non-refundable application fee of $30 for commercial photography or cinematography activities that use models, sets or props that are not part of the natural, cultural resources, or administrative facilities features of the site; take place where members of the public are generally not allowed; or take place at a location where additional administrative costs are likely. If the application is approved and fees will be incurred, the application fee will be applied to the total fee due. No other credits will be given for the application fee. Fee payments for use of facilities or grounds or for commercial photography and cinematography must be made in advance of services being rendered. These payments are to be made in the form of a check or money order.
§ 500.24
Fee Schedule.
Event by category
Fee*
Unit
Notes
USNA Terrace
$12,000
Per Day
Up to 240 seated or 300 standing.
USNA Herb Garden
10,000
Per Day
Entrance Circle, Rose and Knot Garden: Up to 48 seated or 100 standing; cannot be tented. Specialty Garden: Up to 200 standing; may not be tented.
USNA Meadow
15,000
Per Day
Up to 600 seated or 1000 standing.
USNA Administration Building Lobby
2,000
Per Day
Up to 150 standing.
USNA Auditorium
2,500
Per Day
Up to 120 seated or 200 standing.
Friendship Garden
1,500
Per Day
Up to 60 seated or 100 standing.
National Capitol Columns
10,000
Per Day
Up to 190 seated or 400 standing; cannot be tented; includes night lighting of columns.
Bonsai Museum International, Pavilion and Upper Courtyard
10,000
Per Day
Up to 120 seated or 200 standing.
Bonsai Museum Chinese Pavilion
10,000
Per Day
Up to 50 seated or 100 standing.
Dogwood Collection Allee
Circle
3,000
Per Day
Up to maximum of 150 people at event; reserved for marriage ceremonies and accompanying receptions only.
M Street Picnic Area
5,000
Per Day
Up to 200 seated or standing; paved or grassy areas can be tented.
Classroom
125
50
Per Day
Per Half Day
Standard set-up with 40 chairs; includes microphone/lectern, screen, projection stand, two flip charts (no paper), and trashcan.
Still Photography:
Individual
No Charge
For personal use only; includes hand-held cameras, recorders and tripods.
Other
$30
$250 plus Supervision
Application Fee
Per Half Day
All photography that use models, sets or props that are not part of the site's natural or cultural resources or administrative facilities; or take place where members of the public are generally not allowed; or take place at a location where additional administrative costs are likely.
Cinematography:
Set Preparation
$30
$250 plus Supervision
Application Fee
Per Whole Day.
Set up; no filming.
Filming
$1,500 to $3,900
Per Whole Day
Sliding scale based on number of people in cast and crew and number of pieces of equipment from 45 people and 6 pieces of equipment = $1,500 to 200 people = $3,900; 5 people with carry on equipment = same as still photography.
* Fees include only access to sites; additional security charges may be necessary depending upon the site and the number of people participating.
§ 500.25
Payment of fees.
(a) Unless provided otherwise, all payments due under this subpart must be made by cash, check, or money order (in U.S. funds). Checks and money orders for payment of any fees imposed under this part are to be made payable, in U.S. funds, to the “U.S. National Arboretum.” Upon request, the USNA shall provide receipts to requesters for their records or billing purposes. If the USNA enters into an agreement to allow USNA visitors and users to make payment in the form of a credit card, USNA visitors and users who are assessed user fees may pay those fees with a credit card subject to the terms and conditions of such agreement.
(b) Any fees that become past due shall be collected in accordance with 7 CFR part 3.
Pt. 501

# PART 501—CONDUCT ON U.S. MEAT ANIMAL RESEARCH CENTER, CLAY CENTER, NEBRASKA
Sec.
501.1
General.
501.2
Admission.
501.3
Preservation of property.
501.4
Conformity with signs and emergency directions.
501.5
Nuisances.
501.6
Gambling.
501.7
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
501.8
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
501.9
Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.
501.10
Pets.
501.11
Mobile equipment and pedestrian traffic.
501.12
Weapons and explosives.
501.13
Nondiscrimination.
501.14
Non-Federal law enforcement.
501.15
Exceptions.
501.16
Penalties and other law.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 4, 62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318(a), (c); sec. 103, 63 Stat. 380; 40 U.S.C. 753; sec. 205(d), 63 Stat. 389; 40 U.S.C. 486(d); 36 FR 1293 and 36 FR 21706.

# Source:
37 FR 2423, Feb. 1, 1972, unless otherwise noted.
§ 501.1
General.
The rules and regulations in this part apply to all property of or under the charge or control of the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center, Clay Center, Nebr. (hereinafter referred to as the Research Center), and to all persons entering in or on such property. The Administrator, General Services Administration, has delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture, with authority to redelegate, the authority to make all the needful rules and regulations for the protection of the Research Center (36 FR 1293). The Secretary of Agriculture has delegated this authority to the Director of Science and Education (36 FR 21706) who in turn has delegated such authority to the Administrator, Agricultural Research Service (36 FR 21706). The rules and regulations in this part are issued pursuant to such delegations. It is the responsibility of occupant or cooperating agency to require observance of these rules and regulations.
§ 501.2
Admission.
Admission to the Research Center during “off duty” hours shall be restricted to the main arteries and any deviation therefrom by individuals shall be limited to authorized individuals who may be required to sign a register and display identification documents when requested by a guard or other authorized individuals. “Off duty” hours will be posted at the Research Center. Admission during “duty” hours when the Center is closed to the public in emergency situations will be limited to authorized individuals who may be required to sign a register and display identification documents when requested by a guard or other authorized individual.
§ 501.3
Preservation of property.
It is unlawful to willfully destroy, damage, or remove property or any part thereof. Hunting, fishing, motorcycling, using snowmobiles, and other disturbances or encroachment activities are prohibited except for official purposes.
§ 501.4
Conformity with signs and emergency directions.
Persons in and on property of the Research Center shall comply with official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature, and with the directions of authorized individuals.
§ 501.5
Nuisances.
The use of loud, abusive, or otherwise improper language, unwarranted loitering, sleeping, or assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other unseemly or disorderly conduct, throwing articles of any kind from a building, or climbing upon any part of a building is prohibited. Further, conduct which obstructs the usual use of entrances, foyers, corridors, offices, elevators, stairways and parking lots, or which otherwise tends to impede or disturb Center employees in the performance of their duties or which otherwise impedes the general public from obtaining the administrative services provided by the Research Center is prohibited.
§ 501.6
Gambling.
Participating in games for money or other personal property, or the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, or the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets, in or on Research Center property, is prohibited.
§ 501.7
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
Entering Research Center property or the operating of a motor vehicle
thereon, by a person under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic drug, hallucinogen, marijuana, barbiturate, or amphetamine (unless prescribed by a physician) or the consumption of such beverages, or the use of any such drug or substance in or on the Research Center property, is prohibited.
§ 501.8
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
The soliciting of alms and contributions, commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, in or on Research Center property, is prohibited. This section does not apply to national or local drives for funds for welfare, health, and other purposes sponsored or approved by the Agricultural Research Service, concessions, or personal notices posted by employees on authorized bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers or the posting of mateirals on bulletin boards or elsewhere, is prohibited without prior approval of authorized individuals.
§ 501.9
Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.
Except where security regulations apply, or a Federal court order or rules prohibit it, photographs for news purposes may be taken in entrances, lobbies, foyers or auditoriums when used for public meetings without prior permission. Photographs for advertising and commercial purposes may be taken only with the prior written permission of the Director, Research Center. Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes may be taken in space or areas occupied by a cooperator only with the consent of the cooperator concerned and the Director, Research Center.
§ 501.10
Pets.
Animals shall be brought or allowed, as applicable, upon the Research Center only with the prior written approval of the Director, Research Center, except seeing eye dogs may be brought to the reception area serving the offices of the Director, Research Center, without prior approval.
§ 501.11
Mobile equipment and pedestrian traffic.
(a) Drivers, operators, or pilots of all equipment whether or not motorized in or on Research Center property, or within the scope of Research Center activity, shall operate in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of guards, special policemen, or other authorized individuals, and all posted traffic signs;
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, railways, runways, loading platforms, or fire hydrants in or on Research Center property is prohibited;
(c) Except in emergencies, parking or landing in or on Research Center property in other than designated areas is not allowed without a permit. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or parking continuously in excess of ten hours without permission, or contrary to the direction of posted signs is prohibited. This section may be supplemented from time to time by the issuance and posting of specific traffic directives as may be required, and when so issued and posted such directives shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof;
(d) The operation of unlicensed gasoline powered vehicles is prohibited.
§ 501.12
Weapons and explosives.
No person while in or on Research Center property shall carry firearms, bows and arrows, darts, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except as officially authorized, for official purposes.
§ 501.13
Nondiscrimination.
There shall be no discrimination by segregation or otherwise against any person or persons because of race, sex, religion, color, or national origin, in furnishing, or by refusing to furnish to such person or persons the use of any facility of a public nature, including all service, privileges, accommodations, and activities provided thereby on Research Center property.
§ 501.14
Non-Federal law enforcement.
Research Center special policemen may be deputized by State or local law enforcement agencies to exercise police power on property outside the Research Center. With the consent of any State or local law enforcement agency, the facilities or services of such State or local law enforcement agency may be utilized by the Research Center.
§ 501.15
Exceptions.
The Administrator, Agricultural Research Service, may in individual cases make prior, written exceptions to the rules and regulations in this part if he determines it to be not adverse to the public interest.
§ 501.16
Penalties and other law.
Whoever shall be found guilty of violating the rules and regulations in this part where the United States has and exercises exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction, is subject to fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment or not more than 30 days, or both (see 40 U.S.C. 318c). Nothing contained in the rules, regulations, or penalties in this part shall be construed as abrogating or authorizing the abrogation of any other rules, regulations, penalties, or any Federal law, or any State and local laws and regulations which may be applicable.
Pt. 502

# PART 502—CONDUCT ON BELTSVILLE AGRICULTURE RESEARCH CENTER PROPERTY, BELTSVILLE, MARYLAND
Sec.
502.1
General.
502.2
Admission.
502.3
Preservation of property.
502.4
Conformity with signs and emergency directions.
502.5
Nuisances.
502.6
Hunting, fishing, camping, horseback riding.
502.7
Gambling.
502.8
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
502.9
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
502.10
Photographs by visitors or for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.
502.11
Pets.
502.12
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
502.13
Weapons and explosives.
502.14
Nondiscrimination.
502.15
Exceptions.
502.16
Penalties and other law.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 4, 62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318 (a), (c); sec. 103, 63 Stat. 380; 40 U.S.C. 753; sec. 205(d), 63 Stat. 389; 40 U.S.C. 486(d); 36 FR 18440 and 60 FR 56392.

# Source:
37 FR 2424, Feb. 1, 1972, unless otherwise noted.
§ 502.1
General.
The rules and regulations in this part apply to the buildings and grounds of the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center (BARC), Beltsville, MD, and to any persons entering in or on such property. The Administrator, General Services Administration, has delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture, with authority to redelegate, the authority to make all the needful rules and regulations for the protection of the buildings, grounds, equipment, and experimental plants and animals of BARC (36 FR 18440). The Secretary of Agriculture has delegated this authority to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics (60 FR 56392) who in turn has delegated such authority to the Administrator, Agricultural Research Service (60 FR 56392). The rules and regulations in this part are issued pursuant to such delegations.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.2
Admission.
Admission to BARC during “off duty” hours shall be restricted to the main arteries and any deviation therefrom by individuals shall be limited to authorized individuals who may be required to sign a register and display identification documents when requested by BARC Security or other authorized individual. “Off duty” hours will be posted at BARC. Admission during “duty” hours when BARC is closed to the public in emergency situations will be limited to authorized individuals who may be required to sign a register and display identification documents when requested by BARC Security or other authorized individual.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.3
Preservation of property.
It is unlawful to willfully destroy, damage, or remove property or any part thereof.
§ 502.4
Conformity with signs and emergency directions.
Persons in and on property of BARC shall comply with official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature, and with the directions of authorized individuals.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.5
Nuisances.
The use of loud, abusive or otherwise improper language, unwarranted loitering, sleeping, or assembly, the creating of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other unseemly or disorderly conduct, throwing articles of any kind from a building, or climbing upon any part of a building is prohibited. Further, conduct which obstructs the usual use of entrances, foyers, corridors, office elevators, stairways and parking lots, or which otherwise tends to impede or disturb BARC employees in the performance of their duties or which otherwise impedes the general public from obtaining the administrative services provided by BARC is prohibited.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.6
Hunting, fishing, camping, horseback riding.
The use of BARC grounds for any form of hunting, fishing, camping, or horseback riding is prohibited. Further, the use of these grounds for unauthorized picnicking is also prohibited.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.7
Gambling.
Participating in games for money or other personal property, or the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, or the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets, in or on BARC property, is prohibited.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.8
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
Entering BARC property or the operation of a motor vehicle thereon, by a person under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic drug, hallucinogen, marihuana, barbiturate, or amphetamine (unless prescribed by a physician) or the consumption of such beverages, or the use of any such drug or substance in or on BARC property, is prohibited.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.9
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
The soliciting of alms and contributions, commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds or the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, in or on BARC property, is prohibited. This section does not apply to national or local drives for funds for welfare, health, and other purposes sponsored or approved by the Agricultural Research Service, concessions, or personal notices posted by employees on authorized bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers or the posting of materials on bulletin boards or elsewhere is prohibited without prior approval of the Director, Beltsville Area.
[61 FR 51211, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.10
Photographs by visitors or for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.
Photographs may be taken by visitors or for news purposes without prior permission. Photographs for advertising and commercial purposes may be taken at BARC only with the prior written approval of the Director, Beltsville Area.
[61 FR 51212, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.11
Pets.
Pets, except assistance trained animals, brought upon BARC property must be kept on a leash and have proper vaccinations. Pets that are the property of employees residing on BARC must be up to date on their vaccinations, in accordance with State or local laws, and be kept on a leash or similarly restrained. The abandonment of unwanted animals on BARC grounds is prohibited.
[61 FR 51212, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.12
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(a) Drivers of all vehicles whether or not motorized in or on BARC property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of the security staff and all posted traffic signs;
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants in or on BARC property is prohibited;
(c) Except in emergencies, parking in or on BARC property in other than designated areas is not allowed without a permit. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or contrary to the direction of posted signs is prohibited. This section may be supplemented from time to time, by the issuance and posting of specific traffic directives as may be required, and when so issued and posted such directives shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof.
(d) The operation of unlicensed gasoline powered vehicles is prohibited.
[37 FR 2424, Feb. 1, 1972, as amended at 61 FR 51212, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.13
Weapons and explosives.
No person while in or on BARC property shall carry firearms, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except as officially authorized for official purposes.
[61 FR 51212, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.14
Nondiscrimination.
There shall be no discrimination by segregation or otherwise against any person or persons because of race, religion, color, sex, age, disability or national origin, in furnishing, or by refusing to furnish to such person or persons the use of any facility of a public nature, including all services, privileges, accommodations, and activities provided thereby on BARC property.
[61 FR 51212, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.15
Exceptions.
The Administrator, Agricultural Research Service, may in individual cases, make prior, written exceptions to the rules and regulations in this part, if a determination is made that the exception is not adverse to the public interest.
[61 FR 51212, Oct. 1, 1996]
§ 502.16
Penalties and other law.
Whoever shall be found guilty of violating the rules and regulations in this part is subject to fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both (see 40 U.S.C. 318c). Nothing contained in the rules and regulations in this part shall be construed as abrogating or authorizing the abrogation of any other regulations or any Federal law or any laws and regulations of the State of Maryland.
[37 FR 2424, Feb. 1, 1972. Redesignated at 61 FR 51212, Oct. 1, 1996]
Pt. 503

# PART 503—CONDUCT ON PLUM ISLAND ANIMAL DISEASE CENTER
Sec.
503.1
General.
503.2
Admission.
503.3
Preservation of property.
503.4
Conformity with Plum Island regulations.
503.5
Nuisances.
503.6
Camping, boating, and fishing.
503.7
Gambling.
503.8
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
503.9
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
503.10
Photographs for news, advertising, commercial purposes or for personal use.
503.11
Pets.
503.12
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
503.13
Weapons and explosives.
503.14
Nondiscrimination.
503.15
Exceptions.
503.16
Penalties and other law.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 4, 62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318(a), (c); sec. 103, 63 Stat. 380; 40 U.S.C. 486(d); 38 FR 31165 and 38 FR 31166.

# Source:
39 FR 36563, Oct. 11, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 503.1
General.
The rules and regulations in this part cover the buildings, grounds, and vessels of the Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC), United States Department of Agriculture, Orient Point, New York, and apply to all persons entering in or on such properties both on the mainland, Orient Point, New York, and on Plum Island. The Administrator,
General Services Administration, has delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture authority to make all needful rules and regulations, and to annex to such rules and regulations such reasonable penalties (not to exceed those prescribed in 40 U.S.C. 318c) as will ensure their enforcement for the protection of persons and property at Plum Island, New York. The Secretary of Agriculture has redelegated this authority to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research, and Education, who in turn has delegated it to the Administrator, Agricultural Research Service (38 FR 31166).
§ 503.2
Admission.
No person will be admitted to PIADC, into animal holding areas, specified restricted areas, laboratory compounds, or into laboratories without having in his or her possession a specific approved pass or permit authorized by the Director, PIADC, to enter such areas. The pass must be presented at the request of the guard or other authorized PIADC safety representative.
§ 503.3
Preservation of property.
The willful destruction, damage to or removal of property or any part thereof from the Government-owned buildings, grounds, and vessels in or on the PIADC is prohibited.
§ 503.4
Conformity with Plum Island regulations.
Persons in and on PIADC shall at all times comply with official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature and with the directions of law enforcement or other authorized officials.
§ 503.5
Nuisances.
The use of loud, abusive or otherwise improper language, unwarranted loitering, sleeping or assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, or the commission of any obscene or indecent act in or on the PIADC is prohibited.
§ 503.6
Camping, boating, and fishing.
The use of PIADC as a recreational area for camping, boating, fishing, and picnicking is prohibited. The use of Plum Island beaches for unauthorized landings and sightseeing is prohibited.
§ 503.7
Gambling.
Participating in games for money or other personal property, or the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, or the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets in or on the PIADC is prohibited.
§ 503.8
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
Entering the PIADC or operating a motor vehicle thereon by a person under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic drugs, or the consumption of such beverages or the use of such drugs in or on the PIADC, is prohibited.
§ 503.9
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
The soliciting of alms and contributions, commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, in or on PIADC is prohibited. This section does not apply to national or local drives for funds for welfare, health, and other purposes, sponsored or approved by the PIADC, or concessions or personal notices posted by employees on authorized bulletin boards. Unauthorized distribution of materials such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited.
§ 503.10
Photographs for news, advertising, commercial purposes or for personal use.
Photographs on the PIADC for news, advertising, commercial purposes, or personal use may be taken only with prior written permission of Director, PIADC.
§ 503.11
Pets.
No pets or animals of any kind may be brought to the PIADC.
§ 503.12
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
Drivers of all vehicles on the PIADC Government-owned parking areas in PIADC shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of
guards and all posted traffic signs. Pedestrians will also observe specific safety directives as may be issued and posted from time to time by the Director, PIADC, or his authorized representative.
§ 503.13
Weapons and explosives.
No person while in or on the PIADC shall carry firearms or other dangerous or deadly weapons or explosives either openly or concealed, except when authorized to do so for official purposes by the Director, PIADC, or his authorized representative.
§ 503.14
Nondiscrimination.
There shall be no discrimination by segregation or otherwise against any person or persons because of race, religion, sex, color, or national origin in furnishing or refusing to furnish to such person or persons the use of any facility of a public nature, including all services, privileges, accommodations and activities provided by the PIADC.
§ 503.15
Exceptions.
The Director, PIADC, may, in specific cases, make prior written exceptions to the rules and regulations in this part if he determines it to be in the best interest of the Government.
§ 503.16
Penalties and other law.
Whoever shall be found guilty of violating any rule or regulation in this part while in or on the PIADC is subject to a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both. (See 40 U.S.C. 318c.) Nothing contained in these rules and regulations shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal laws or regulations, or any State and local laws and regulations, applicable to the PIADC.
Pt. 504

# PART 504—USER FEES
Sec.
504.1
General statement.
504.2
Fees for deposit and requisition of microbial cultures.
504.3
Payment of fees.
504.4
Exemptions from user fee charges.
504.5
Address.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701.

# Source:
50 FR 5365, Feb. 8, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 504.1
General statement.
This part sets forth fees to be charged for the deposit and distribution of microbial patent cultures. The fees set forth in this part are applicable to the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) Patent Culture Collection, Northern Regional Research Center, Peoria, Illinois.
§ 504.2
Fees for deposit and requisition of microbial cultures.
(a) Depositors of microbial cultures must pay a one-time $670 user fee for each culture deposited on or after December 1, 2015.
(b) For cultures deposited on or after December 1, 2015, requestors must pay a $40 user fee for each culture distributed.
[80 FR 74966, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 504.3
Payment of fees.
(a) Payment of user fees must accompany a culture deposit or request.
(b) Payment shall be made by check, draft, money order, or
pay.gov,
payable to USDA, National Finance Center.
[80 FR 74966, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 504.4
Exemptions from user fee charges.
(a) USDA laboratories and ARS cooperators designated by the Curator of the ARS Patent Culture Collection are exempt from fee assessments.
(b) The Curator of the ARS Patent Culture Collection is delegated the authority to approve and revoke exemptions from fee assessments.
§ 504.5
Address.
Deposits of and requests for microbial patent cultures should be directed to the Curator, ARS Patent Culture Collection, Northern Regional Research Center, USDA-ARS, 1815 N. University St., Peoria, Illinois 61604; (309) 685-4011.
Pt. 505

# PART 505—NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL LIBRARY FEES FOR LOANS AND COPYING
Sec.
505.1
Scope and purpose.
505.2
Fees for loans, copying, and reproduction of materials in library collections.
505.3-505.5
[Reserved]
505.6
Payment of fees.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 3125a.

# Source:
77 FR 3069, Jan. 23, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 505.1
Scope and purpose.
These regulations establish fees for loans, copying, or reproduction of materials in the collections of the National Agricultural Library (NAL) within the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
§ 505.2
Fees for loans, copying, and reproduction of materials in library collections.
(a) NAL will provide interlibrary loan service (including loans of original materials from its collections and copies of portions of documents with copyright compliance) and charge fees for such service to other non-Federal and non-USDA libraries and institutions. Loans will be provided within the United States and Canada only. Copies will be provided within the United States and internationally.
(b) Interlibrary loan service will be provided at a flat fee of $18 per request for libraries paying electronically through the Online Computer Library Center's (OCLC) Interlibrary Loan Fee Management (IFM) program and at a flat rate of $25 per request for libraries paying by other methods.
(c) Cost for replacement of lost or damaged items will be the actual cost to purchase a replacement plus a $50.00 processing fee; or if replacement cost cannot be determined, a flat rate of $75.00 for monographs or $150.00 for audiovisuals per item plus a $50.00 processing fee.
(d) Photographic services from NAL Special Collections will be charged at cost for reproduction of the photo product (slides, transparencies, etc.) plus a preparation fee of $25.00 per half hour or fraction thereof.
§§ 505.3-505.5
[Reserved]
§ 505.6
Payment of fees.
NAL charges for interlibrary loans through OCLC's IFM Program (an electronic debit/credit payment program for libraries using OCLC's resource sharing service) or by invoice through the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) of the United States Department of Commerce. Payment for invoiced services will be made by check, money order, or credit card in U.S. funds directly to NTIS upon receipt of invoice from NTIS. NAL encourages users to establish deposit accounts with NTIS for payment of interlibrary loan fees. Subject to a reduction for the actual costs of performing the invoicing service by NTIS, all funds will be returned to NAL for credit to the appropriations account charged with the cost of processing the interlibrary loan request.
Pt. 510

# PART 510—PUBLIC INFORMATION
Sec.
510.1
General statement.
510.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
510.3
Requests for records.
510.4
Multitrack processing.
510.5
Denials.
510.6
Appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; 7 CFR part 1, subpart A and appendix A thereto.

# Source:
66 FR 57841, Nov. 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 510.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture in part 1, subpart A of this title and appendix A thereto, implementing the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552). The Secretary's regulations, as implemented by the regulations in this part, govern the availability of records of the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) to the public.
§ 510.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) requires that certain materials be made available for public inspection and copying and that a current index of these materials be
published quarterly or otherwise be made available. Members of the public may request access to such materials maintained by ARS at the following office: Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Room 1-2248, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or (301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1743. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Information maintained in our electronic reading room can be accessed at
http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/foia/#Electronic.
§ 510.3
Requests for records.
Requests for records of ARS under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) shall be made in accordance with Subsection 1.5 of this title and submitted to the FOIA Coordinator, Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or (301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1743; Facsimile (301) 504-1648; e-mail
vherberger@ars.usda.gov
or
shutchison@ars.usda.gov.
The FOIA Coordinator is delegated authority to make determinations regarding such requests in accordance with Subsection 1.3(c) of this title.
§ 510.4
Multitrack processing.
(a) When ARS has a significant number of requests, the nature of which precludes a determination within 20 working days, the requests may be processed in a multitrack processing system, based on the date of receipt, the amount of work and time involved in processing the request, and whether the request qualifies for expedited processing.
(b) ARS may establish as many processing tracks as appropriate; processing within each track shall be based on a first-in, first-out concept, and rank-ordered by the date of receipt of the request.
(c) A requester whose request does not qualify for the fastest track may be given an opportunity to limit the scope of the request in order to qualify for the fastest track. This multitrack processing system does not lessen agency responsibility to exercise due diligence in processing requests in the most expeditious manner possible.
(d) ARS shall process requests in each track on a “first-in, first-out” basis, unless there are unusual circumstances as set forth in § 1.16 of this title, or the requester is entitled to expedited processing as set forth in § 1.9 of this title.
§ 510.5
Denials.
If the FOIA Coordinator determines that a requested record is exempt from mandatory disclosure and that discretionary release would be improper, the FOIA Coordinator shall give written notice of denial in accordance with § 1.7(a) of this title.
§ 510.6
Appeals.
Any person whose request is denied shall have the right to appeal such denial. Appeals shall be made in accordance with § 1.14 of this title and should be addressed as follows: Administrator, ARS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
Pt. 520

# PART 520—PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
Sec.
520.1
General statement.
520.2
Definition.
520.3
Policy.
520.4
Responsibilities.
520.5
Categorical exclusions.
520.6
Preparation of an Environmental Assessment (EA).
520.7
Preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).

# Authority:
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
E.O. 11514, 34 FR 4247, as amended by E.O. 11991, 42 FR 26927; E.O. 12144, 44 FR 11957; 5 U.S.C. 301; 40 CFR 1500-1508.

# Source:
51 FR 34191, Sept. 25, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 520.1
General statement.
These procedures assure that research and other activities of the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) comply with the intent of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and appropriate regulations implementing this Act. These procedures incorporate and supplement, and are not a substitute for, CEQ regulations under 40 CFR parts 1500-1508, and Department
of Agriculture NEPA Policies and Procedures under 7 CFR part 1b. ARS conducts and supports research as authorized by legislation to support one of the USDA goals of assuring adequate supplies of high quality food and fiber. Information generated through such research often forms the basic data needed to assess the impact of a new technology upon the environment. Large scale projects simulating commercial practices are normally implemented in cooperation with other agencies of the Federal or State Governments.
§ 520.2
Definition.
Control Agents
mean biological material or chemicals which are intended to enhance the production efficiency of an agricultural crop or animal such as through elimination of a pest.
§ 520.3
Policy.
(a) It is ARS policy to comply with the provisions of NEPA and related laws and policies.
(b) Environmental documents should be concise, written in plain language, and address the issues pertinent to the decision being made.
(c) Environmental documents may be substituted or combined with other reports which serve to facilitate decisionmaking.
(d) Costs of analyses and environmental documents are to be planned for during the budgetary process for the plan, program, or project. Special provisions for financing NEPA process activities which are unanticipated and extraordinary may be made in the Office of the Administrator of ARS.
(e) ARS personnel will cooperate with other agencies, States, contractors, or other entities proposing to undertake activities involving the ARS to assure that NEPA considerations are addressed early in the planning process to avoid delays and conflicts as required by 40 CFR 1501.2.
(f) For some activities, project participants outside ARS may be required to provide data and documentation. When an applicant or contractor prepares an environmental assessment (EA) or a contractor prepares an environmental impact statement (EIS), the activities shall be carried out according to 40 CFR 1506.5.
(g) Environmental documents, decision notices, and records of decision must be made available for review by the public. There shall be an early and open process for determining the scope of issues to be addressed in the environmental analysis process (40 CFR 1501.7).
(h) The concepts of tiering to eliminate repetitive discussions applicable to EIS's (40 CFR part 1502) are also applicable to EA's.
(i) ARS personnel may adopt an existing EA or EIS when a proposed action is substantially the same as the action for which the existing EA or EIS was prepared (40 CFR 1506.3 (b)).
(j) ARS personnel may incorporate by reference any existing documents in order to reduce the bulk of an EA or EIS (40 CFR 1502.21).
(k) After prior consultation with the Council on Environmental Quality, ARS personnel may forego preparation of an EA or EIS in emergency situations (40 CFR 1506.11).
§ 520.4
Responsibilities.
(a)
Administrator.
The Administrator is responsible for environmental analysis and documentation required for compliance with the provisions of NEPA and related laws, policies, plans, programs, and projects. The ARS Deputy Administrator for Natural Resources has been delegated responsibility for the establishment of procedures and coordination necessary to carry out the policies and provisions of NEPA.
(b)
Deputy Administrators and Area Directors.
The Deputy Administrators and Area Directors are responsible to the Administrator for assuring that ARS programs are in compliance with the policies and procedures of NEPA.
[51 FR 34191, Sept. 25, 1986, as amended at 77 FR 40250, July 9, 2012]
§ 520.5
Categorical exclusions.
For the following categories of actions, the preparation of an EA or EIS is not required:
(a)
Department of Agriculture categorical exclusions (7 CFR 1b.3).
(1) Policy
development, planning and implementation which are related to routine activities such as personnel, organizational changes or similar administrative functions;
(2) Activities which deal solely with the functions of programs, such as program budget proposals, disbursement, transfer or reprogramming of funds;
(3) Inventories, research activities and studies, such as resource inventories and routine data collection when such actions are clearly limited in context and intensity;
(4) Educational and information programs and activities;
(5) Activities which are advisory and consultative to other agencies, public and private entities, and
(6) Activities related to trade representation and market development activities overseas.
(b)
ARS categorical exclusions.
ARS actions which, based on previous experience, have been found to have limited scope and intensity and produce little or no individual or cumulative impacts to the human environment. Some examples are:
(1) Repair, replacement of structural components or equipment, or other routine maintenance of facilities controlled in whole or in part by ARS;
(2) Research programs or projects of limited size and magnitude or with only short-term effects on the environment. Examples are:
(i) Research operations conducted within any laboratory, greenhouse or other contained facility where research practices and safeguards prevent environment impacts such as the release of hazardous materials into the environment;
(ii) Inventories, studies or other such activities that have limited context and minimal intensity in terms of changes in the environment;
(iii) Testing outside of the laboratory, such as in small isolated field plots, which does not involve the use of control agents requiring containment or a special license or a permit from a regulatory agency.
(c)
Exceptions to categorical exclusions.
An environmental assessment shall be prepared for an activity which is normally within the purview of categorical exclusion if there are extraordinary circumstances which may cause such activity to have a significant environmental effect.
§ 520.6
Preparation of an Environmental Assessment (EA).
(a)
Actions requiring EA.
The following actions would normally require an EA:
(1) Programs, supported in the majority by ARS, which may assist in the transition of a particular technology from field evaluation stage to large-scale demonstration or simulated commercial phase;
(2) Field work having an impact on the local environment such as earth excavation, explosives, weather modifications, or other such techniques; and
(3) The testing outside the laboratory, such as small isolated field plots, of control agents which require containment precautions or either a special license or a permit from a regulatory agency.
(b)
Multiple agencies actions.
If more than one Federal agency participates in a program activity, the EA shall be prepared by the lead agency as provided in 40 CFR 1501.5.
(c)
Format and conclusion.
An EA can be in any format provided it covers in a logical and succinct fashion the information necessary for determining whether a proposed Federal action may have a significant environmental impact and thus warrant preparation of an EIS. The EA will contain the information required by 40 CFR 1508.9. This information will include brief discussions of the need for the project or other proposal, alternatives, environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives and a listing of agencies and persons consulted.
(d)
Decision notice.
Upon completion of an EA, the responsible official will consider the information it contains, decide whether an EIS is required or that no significant environmental impact will occur, and will document the decision and the reasons for it. The decision and the EA shall be available to the public in a manner appropriate to the situation. If there is a finding of no significant impact, the EA may be combined with the decision notice.
§ 520.7
Preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
(a)
Actions requiring EIS.
An EIS will normally be prepared for:
(1) Proposals for legislation which are determined to be a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment; or,
(2) Other major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. In the experience of ARS, an environmental impact statement shall normally be required in situations when a research project has advanced beyond the laboratory and small plot testing to full scale field testing over a very large area and involving the introduction of control agents.
(b)
Notice of intent.
If the responsible official recommends the preparation of an EIS, then the public shall be apprised of the decision. This notice shall be prepared according to 40 CFR 1508.22.
(c)
Draft and final EIS.
The process of preparing the draft and final EIS, as well as the format, shall be according to 40 CFR parts 1502-1506.
(d)
Decisionmaking and implementation.
The responsible official may make a decision no sooner than thirty days after the notice of availability of the final EIS has been published in the
Federal Register
by the Environmental Protection Agency (40 CFR 1506.10). The decision will be documented in a Record of Decision required by 40 CFR 1502.2, and monitoring and mitigation activities will be implemented as required by 40 CFR 1505.3.
Pt. 550

# PART 550—GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY FOR NON-ASSISTANCE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
Sec.
550.100
Purpose and scope.
550.101
Definitions.
550.102
Applicability.
550.103
Eligibility.
550.104
Competition.
550.105
Duration.
550.106
Mutuality of interest.
550.107
Exceptions.
550.108
Conflicting policies and deviations.
550.109
Formation of non-assistance cooperative agreements.
550.110
Certifications and compliance with statutory and national policy requirements; REE conflict of interest policy.
550.111
Project supervision and responsibilities.
550.112
Administrative supervision.
550.113
Rules of the workplace.
550.114
Availability of funds.
550.115
Payment.
550.116
Prior approvals.
550.117
Program income.
550.118
Peer review.
550.119
Publications and audiovisuals.
550.120
Press releases.
550.121
Advertising.
550.122
Vesting of title.
550.123
Financial reporting.
550.124
Technical and property reporting requirements.

# Authority:
Section 1472(b) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3318(b)).

# Source:
81 FR 69999, Oct. 11, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.100
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part adopts the OMB guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by this part, as REE policies and procedures for non-assistance cooperative agreements executed under the authority of Section 1472(b) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C 3318(b)). It thereby makes applicable for REE non-assistance cooperative agreements the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
(b)
Scope.
The REE Agencies subject to this rule include ARS, National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS), Economics Research Service (ERS), and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). These agreements are neither procurement nor assistance in nature, and therefore, are not subject to the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977.
§ 550.101
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency Principal Investigator
means the REE Agency technical representative, acting within the scope of delegated authority, who is responsible for participating with the cooperator in the accomplishment of a non-assistance cooperative agreement's objective(s), and monitoring and evaluating
the cooperator's performance (
i.e.,
ARS PI).
Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO)
means the REE Agency's official with delegated authority to negotiate, award, administer, and terminate non-assistance cooperative agreements.
Award
means an executed non-assistance cooperative agreement.
Cooperator
means an eligible entity, as defined in 7 U.S.C. 3318(b), who enters into a non-assistance cooperative agreement with a REE Agency to further research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences.
Cooperator resource contributions
means a real and substantial contribution of resources (more than nominal), in furtherance of the objective(s) of the award, in order to evoke a partnership such that all parties to the agreement have a true stake in the project.
Funding period
means the period of time when Federal funding is available for obligation by the cooperator (start date through end date).
Non-Assistance Cooperative Agreement (NACA)
means a legal instrument which is neither a procurement contract nor an assistance-type cooperative agreement, that furthers agricultural research, extension, or teaching programs in which the objectives of the agreement serve a mutual interest of the parties in agricultural research, extension, and teaching activities and all parties contribute resources to the accomplishment of those objectives.
Peer Review
is a process utilized by REE Agencies to determine if agency sponsored research projects have scientific merit and program relevance; to provide peer input, and make improvements to project design and technical approaches; and to provide insight on how to conduct the highest quality research in support of REE Agency missions and programs.
Principle Investigator (PI)
means the individual, designated by the cooperator, responsible for directing and monitoring the performance, the day-to-day activities, and the scientific and technical aspects of the cooperator's portion of a REE funded project. The PI works jointly with the REE Agency PI in the development of project objectives and all other technical and performance related aspects of the program or project. See additional responsibilities of PI in § 550.111 of this part.
REE Agency
means the USDA, REE Mission Area agency (ARS, ERS, NASS, or NIFA) that enters into a non-assistance cooperative agreement.
State Cooperative Institution
is defined in 7 U.S.C. 3103(18) as institutions designated or receiving funds pursuant to the following eight statutory requirements, as may be amended:
(1) The First Morrill Act—The Land Grant Institutions.
(2) The Second Morrill Act—The 1890 Institutions, including Tuskegee University.
(3) The Hatch Act of March 2, 1887 (24 Stat. 440-442, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 361a-361i)—The State Agricultural Experiment Stations.
(4) The Smith-Lever Act of May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 372-374, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 341-349)—The State Extension Services.
(5) The McIntire-Stennis Cooperative Forestry Act; 16 U.S.C. 582a
et seq.
—Cooperating Forestry Schools.
(6) Public Law 95-113, Section 1430—A college or university having an accredited college of veterinary medicine or a department of veterinary science or animal pathology or similar unit conducting animal health and disease research in a State Agricultural Experiment Station.
(7) Public Law 95-113, Section 1475(b), as added by Public Law 97-98, section 1440—Colleges, universities, and Federal laboratories having a demonstrated capacity in aquaculture research.
(8) Public Law 95-113, section 1480, as added by Public Law 97-98, section 1440—Colleges, universities, and Federal laboratories having a demonstrated capacity of rangeland research.
§ 550.102
Applicability.
This part applies to all REE non-assistance cooperative agreements awarded under the authority of 7 U.S.C. 3318(b).
§ 550.103
Eligibility.
REE Agencies may enter into a non-assistance cooperative agreements
with eligible entities to further research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences. Eligible entities are any State agricultural experimental station, State cooperative extension service, any college or university, other research or education institution or organization, Federal or private agency or organization, an individual, or other party, either foreign or domestic.
§ 550.104
Competition.
REE Agencies may enter into non-assistance cooperative agreements, as authorized by this part, without regard to any requirements for competition specified in 2 CFR 200.202 and 200.206. (7 U.S.C. 3318(e)).
§ 550.105
Duration.
REE Agencies may enter into non-assistance cooperative agreements for a period not to exceed five years. (7 U.S.C. 3318(c)).
§ 550.106
Mutuality of interest.
The REE Agency must document all parties' interest in the project. Mutual interest exists when all parties benefit in the same qualitative way from the objectives of the award. If one party to the non-assistance cooperative agreement would independently have an interest in the project, which is shared by the other party, and all parties contribute resources to obtain the end result of the project, mutual interest exists.
§ 550.107
Exceptions.
This part does not apply to:
(a) USDA Federal Financial Assistance agreements subject to 2 CFR parts 400 and 415;
(b) Procurement contracts or other agreements subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) or the Agriculture Acquisition Regulation (AgAR); or
(c) Agreements providing loans or insurance directly to an individual.
§ 550.108
Conflicting policies and deviations.
This part supersedes and takes precedence over any individual REE regulations and directives dealing with executed and administered non-assistance cooperative agreements entered into under the delegated authority of 7 U.S.C. 3318(b). This part may only be superseded, in whole or in part, by a specifically worded Federal statute, regulation, or Executive Order. Deviations from specific provisions of part 550 must be authorized by the USDA-REE-Administrative and Financial Management (AFM)-Financial Management and Agreements Division (FMAD), or any successor organization, based on a documented justification. In the interest of maximum uniformity, exceptions from any requirements of this Part will be permitted only in unusual circumstances. Responsibility for developing, interpreting, and updating this Part is assigned to the USDA-REE-AFM-FMAD, or any successor organization.
§ 550.109
Formation of non-assistance cooperative agreements.
In lieu of 2 CFR 200.201 through 200.204, 200.206, and 200.306, this section establishes project development, resource contributions, indirect cost reimbursement, and tuition remission provisions for non-assistance cooperative agreements.
(a)
Project development.
REE Agencies provide partial funding to cooperators to support research projects that contribute to REE program objectives and help carry out the REE mission. The project must consist of a project plan and/or statement of work, and a budget as follows:
(1)
Project plan.
A
project plan
must be jointly developed by the Agency PI and the cooperator, and be compliant with a REE program requirement. The REE Agency may include program-specific requirements, as applicable. These requirements should be aligned with Agency strategic goals, strategic objectives, or performance goals that are relevant to the program.
(2)
Statement of work.
A detailed
statement of work
must be jointly planned, developed, and prepared by the cooperator's PI and the Agency PI to address the objective(s), approach, statement of mutual interest, performance responsibilities (which may include specific performance goals, indicators, milestones, or expected outcomes, such as outputs, or services performed or
public impacts of any of these, with an expected timeline for accomplishment), and any mutual agreements.
(3)
Budget.
The
budget
is a funding plan that must be jointly developed by the Agency PI and the Cooperator PI. The approved budget must identify the cooperator resource contributions, both direct and indirect, by budget line item. The cooperator must provide a budget justification/narrative.
(b)
Resource contributions.
Each party must contribute resources towards the successful completion of the non-assistance cooperative agreement.
(1)
Agency resource contributions.
The
Agency's contribution
is the Federal share as reflected in the award.
(2)
Cooperator resource contributions.
The
Cooperator's contribution
may consist of funds, services, or in-kind contributions, must be no less than 20 percent of the total funding provided by the REE Agency, and cannot fall below 20 percent of the total Federal funding throughout the period of performance. All cooperator contributions must consist of a sufficient amount of itemized direct costs to demonstrate a true stake in the project, as determined by the ADO. All contributions must be documented in the budget and be consistent with the cooperator's institution classification of costs.
(i) Cooperator resource contributions must meet all of the following criteria:
(A) Are verifiable from the Cooperator's records;
(B) Are not included as contributions for any other Federal award;
(C) Are necessary and reasonable for accomplishment of project or program objectives;
(D) Are allowable under 2 CFR part 200, subpart E;
(E) Are not paid by the Federal government under another Federal award, except where the Federal statute authorizing a program specifically provides that Federal funds made available for such program can be applied to cooperator resource contributions of other Federal programs;
(F) Conform to other provisions of this Part, as applicable.
(ii) Cooperator's share of contributions to the project may include:
(A) Unrecovered indirect costs, including indirect costs of the cooperator's resource contributions. Unrecovered indirect cost means the difference between the amount charged to the award and the amount which could have been charged to the award under the cooperator's approved negotiated indirect cost rate.
(B) Values for cooperator's contributions of services and property, established in accordance with 2 CFR 200.434. If the REE Agency authorizes the cooperator to donate buildings or land for construction/facilities acquisition projects or long term use, the value of the donated property for cooperator contributions must be the lesser of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section (refer to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(H) of this section for more on the value of donated property):
(
1
) The value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the cooperator's accounting records at the time of donation.
(
2
) The current fair market value. However, when there is sufficient justification, the REE Agency may approve the use of the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the value described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section at the time of donation.
(C) Volunteer services furnished by third-party professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor, if the service is an integral and necessary part of an approved project or program. Rates for third-party volunteer services must be consistent with those paid for similar work by the cooperator. In those instances in which the required skills are not found in the cooperator, rates must be consistent with those paid for similar work in the labor market in which the cooperator competes for the kind of services involved. In either case, paid fringe benefits that are reasonable, necessary, allocable, and otherwise allowable may be included in the valuation. (Refer to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(H) of this section for more on third-party in-kind contributions.)
(D) Donated employee services furnished by third-party organization. These services must be valued at the employee's regular rate of pay plus an
amount of fringe benefits that is reasonable, necessary, allocable, and otherwise allowable, and indirect costs at either the third-party organization's approved federally negotiated indirect cost rate, or, a rate in accordance with 2 CFR 200.414(d), provided these services employ the same skill(s) for which the employee is normally paid. Where donated services are treated as indirect costs, indirect cost rates will separate the value of the donated services so that reimbursement for the donated services will not be made. (Refer to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(H) of this section for more on third-party in-kind contributions.)
(E) Donated property from third parties, which may include such items as office supplies, laboratory supplies, or workshop and classroom supplies. Value assessed to donated property included in the cooperator contributions must not exceed the fair market value of the property at the time of the donation. (Refer to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(H) in this section for more on third-party in-kind contributions.)
(F) Third-party-donated equipment, buildings and land. The method used for determining cooperator contributions for which title passes to the cooperator may differ according to the purpose of the Award, if paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(F)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section apply:
(
1
) If the purpose of the Federal award is to assist the non-Federal entity in the acquisition of equipment, buildings or land, the aggregate value of the donated property may be claimed as cooperator resource contributions.
(
2
) If the purpose of the Award is to support activities that require the use of equipment, buildings or land, normally only depreciation charges for equipment and buildings may be made. However, the fair market value of equipment or other capital assets and fair rental charges for land may be allowed, provided that the REE Agency has approved the charges. See also 2 CFR 200.420.
(G) The value of donated property must be determined in accordance with the usual accounting policies of the cooperator, with the following qualifications:
(
1
) The value of donated land and buildings must not exceed its fair market value at the time of donation to the Cooperator as established by an independent appraiser (
e.g.,
certified real property appraiser or General Services Administration representative) and certified by a responsible official of the cooperator as required by the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) (Uniform Act) except as provided in the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.
(
2
) The value of donated equipment must not exceed the fair market value of equipment of the same age and condition at the time of donation.
(
3
) The value of donated space must not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately-owned building in the same locality.
(
4
) The value of loaned equipment must not exceed its fair rental value.
(H) For third-party in-kind contributions, the fair market value of these goods and services must be documented and to the extent feasible supported by the same methods used internally by the cooperator.
(c)
Indirect costs and tuition remission
—(1)
Reimbursement of indirect costs.
Reimbursement of indirect costs is either prohibited or limited as further described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, and the limit is identified on the approved budget, when applicable.
(i)
State cooperative institutions.
Payment of indirect costs to State cooperative institutions in connection with a non-assistance cooperative agreement is prohibited, as described in 7 U.S.C. 3319. This prohibition does not apply to funds for international agricultural programs conducted by a State cooperative institution and administered by the Secretary, or to funds provided by a Federal agency for such cooperative program or project through a fund transfer, advance, or reimbursement.
(ii)
Non-profit organizations.
Payment of indirect costs to non-profit organizations in connection with a non-assistance cooperative agreement is limited to 10 percent of the total direct cost of
the Award. (Annual Appropriations Bill for Agriculture and Related agencies, General Provisions.)
(iii)
All other cooperating entities.
With the exception of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, payment of indirect costs is allowable in connection with a non-assistance cooperative agreement. Reimbursement of indirect costs is limited to the percentage(s) established in the cooperator's approved negotiated indirect cost rate or, if applicable, the de minimis indirect cost rate.
(2)
Tuition remission.
Reimbursement of tuition expenses to State cooperative institutions in connection with non-assistance cooperative agreements is prohibited. (7 U.S.C. 3319)
(d)
Terms and conditions.
The Agency may impose award-specific terms and conditions or require additional assurances when appropriate.
§ 550.110
Certifications and compliance with statutory and national policy requirements; REE conflict of interest policy.
(a)
Federal statutory and national policy
requirements. The Cooperator must adhere to and comply with, all statutory and national policy requirements of the Federal Government. All signed certifications and assurances must be received by the REE Agency prior to execution of the award.
(b)
REE conflict of interest policy.
(1) The Cooperator must disclose in writing any potential conflict of interest to the REE awarding agency, prior to award, and when a potential conflict arises during NACA period of performance.
(2) The Cooperator must maintain written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest and governing the performance of their employees engaged in the selection, award and administration of contracts, and any subawards.
§ 550.111
Project supervision and responsibilities.
(a) The Cooperator is responsible and accountable for the performance and conduct of all its employees assigned to the project. REE Agencies do not have authority to supervise cooperator employees nor engage in the employer/employee relationship.
(b) The Cooperator PI must:
(1) Work jointly with the Agency PI on developing the project statement of work and budget;
(2) Assure that technical project performance and financial status reports are timely submitted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award;
(3) Advise the Agency PI of any issues that may affect the timely completion of the project (award);
(4) Assure that appropriate acknowledgements of support are included in all publications and audiovisuals, in accordance with § 550.119 of this part;
(5) Assure that inventions are appropriately reported, in accordance with § 550.124 of this part;
(6) Upon request, provide the Agency a project plan for use during external peer reviews; and
(7) When appropriate, work with the Agency PI to prepare findings for peer-reviewed publication in scientific journals, and make presentations/talks to shareholders, etc.
§ 550.112
Administrative supervision.
The Cooperator is responsible for employer/employee relations such as personnel, performance, and time management issues. The Cooperator is solely responsible for the administrative supervision of its employees, even when its employees are working in Agency facilities.
§ 550.113
Rules of the workplace.
Cooperator employees, while engaged in work at REE facilities, will abide by the Agency's standard operating procedures with regard to the maintenance of laboratory notebooks, dissemination of information, equipment operation standards, facility access, hours of work, Federal agency required training, and the Rules and Regulations Governing Conduct on Federal Property (41 CFR part 102-74, subpart C). Cooperator employees will also undergo any background investigations/clearances, and submit to any health monitoring medical surveillance requirements associated with the REE facility where they will work.
§ 550.114
Availability of funds.
Unless otherwise stated in the agreement, the funding period will begin on the start date of the period of performance specified on the Award Face Sheet.
§ 550.115
Payment.
Reimbursement is the standard method of payment for non-assistance cooperative agreements. All payments to the Cooperator will be made in U.S. dollars by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), utilizing the Cooperator's DUNS number and current SAM registration information. The method of payment will be identified on the Award Face Sheet and includes:
(a)
Electronic payment system.
The Agency-accepted electronic payment system is the default method of payment.
(b)
EFT/Treasury Check.
When the payment method identified on the Award Face Sheet is “EFT/Treasury Check,” the Cooperator must submit invoices to the Agency on the OMB-approved SF-270, “Request for Advance or Reimbursement.” In addition to the SF-270, the Cooperator must provide:
(1) Total dollar amount requested for reimbursement itemized by approved budget categories, including the indirect cost rate for the award, when applicable.
(2) Name, phone number, email address, and the Cooperator's financial contact, should the ADO or Agency PI have any invoice questions.
§ 550.116
Prior approvals.
(a)
Approval.
With regard to 2 CFR 200.308(d)(4), prior documented approval from the REE Agency ADO is required for all prior approval requirements described in paragraph 2 CFR 200.308(d)(2).
(b)
No cost extensions.
With regard to 2 CFR 200.308(d)(2), all time extensions will only be approved by an amendment to the award. The Cooperator shall prepare and submit a written request to the ADO (which must be received no later than 10 days prior to the expiration date of the award). The request must contain, at a minimum, the following information:
(1) The length of additional time required to complete project objectives and a justification for the extension;
(2) A summary of progress to date (a copy of the most recent progress report is acceptable provided the information is current); and,
(3) Signature of the Authorized Representative and the Principal Investigator requesting the extension. Any request received by the ADO that does not meet this requirement will be returned for the necessary signature(s).
(c)
Budget revisions.
Budget revisions among direct cost categories or programs, functions, and activities for awards in which the Federal share of the project
exceeds
the Simplified Acquisition Threshold and the cumulative amount of such transfers
exceeds
or
is expected to exceed
10 percent of the total budget as last approved by the REE Agency requires prior documented approval.
(d)
Advertising.
See § 550.121 of this part.
§ 550.117
Program income.
(a)
Use of program income.
(1) Program income earned must be added to the non-assistance cooperative agreement, unless otherwise specified in the award.
(2) When specified in the award, program income can be used towards fulfilling the cooperator's resource contributions for the same award.
(b)
Disclosing program income.
The Cooperator must disclose program income in financial reports. Refer to § 550.123 of this part.
(c)
Program income closeout.
The REE Agency and the Cooperator will negotiate appropriate uses of income earned balances, after the period of performance, as part of the agreement closeout process.
§ 550.118
Peer review.
Upon request of the REE Agency, Cooperators may be required to provide documentation in support of peer review activities, and Cooperator's personnel may be requested to participate in peer review forums to assist the REE Agency with their reviews.
§ 550.119
Publications and audiovisuals.
In addition to 2 CFR 415.2, “Acknowledgement of USDA Support on Publications and Audiovisuals,” the Cooperator must adhere to the following:
(a) The REE Agency acknowledgment of support must read: “This material is based upon work supported by the Department of Agriculture, (type Agency name) under Agreement No. (type the Federal Award Identification Number (FAIN) here).”
(b) All material described in 2 CFR 415.2 must also contain the following disclaimer unless the publication or audiovisual is formally cleared by the REE Agency: “Any opinions, findings, conclusion, or recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the view of the Department of Agriculture.”
(c) Any public or technical information related to work carried out under a non-assistance cooperative agreement must be submitted by the developing party to the other for advice and comment. Information released to the public must describe the contributions of both parties to the work effort. In the event of a dispute, a separate publication or audiovisual may be made with effective statements of acknowledgment and disclaimer.
(d) The Cooperator must submit to the Agency PI copies of all final publications and audiovisuals resulting from the research conducted under the non-assistance cooperative agreement.
(e) REE Agencies and the Federal Government shall enjoy a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use, and to authorize others to use, for Federal purposes any materials developed in conjunction with a non-assistance cooperative agreement or contract under such a cooperative agreement.
§ 550.120
Press releases.
Press releases or other forms of public notification for a broad public audience will be submitted to the REE Agency for review, prior to release to the public. The REE Agency will be given the opportunity to review, in advance, all written press releases and any other written information (including web content postings) to be released to the public by the Cooperator, and require changes as deemed necessary, if the material mentions by name the REE Agency, or the USDA, or any REE or USDA employee or research unit or location.
§ 550.121
Advertising.
The Cooperator will not refer in any manner to the USDA or any REE Agency in connection with the use of the results of the award, without prior specific written authorization by the REE Agency. Information obtained as a result of the award will be made available to the public in printed or other forms by the REE Agency at its discretion. The Cooperator will be given due credit for its cooperation in the project. Prior approval is required.
§ 550.122
Vesting of title.
Title to equipment and supplies and other tangible personal property will vest in the Cooperator as described in 2 CFR 200.313 and 200.314, unless otherwise specified in the award. (7 U.S.C. 3318(d))
§ 550.123
Financial reporting.
The Cooperator must submit financial reports at the interval required by the REE Agency, as identified on the Award Face Sheet, and may submit financial reports to the ADO electronically (refer to 2 CFR 200.335 Methods for collection, transmission, and storage of information).
(a) The OMB-approved SF-425, “Federal Financial Report,” may be used to report the financial status of an award; however, a financial report must contain an itemization of actual dollar amounts expended on the project during the reporting period (in line with the approved budget), and cumulative totals expended for each budget category from the start date of the award.
(b) Financial reporting due dates:
(1) Quarterly and semi-annual reports are due no later than 30 calendar days after the reporting period.
(2) Annual reports are due no later than 90 days following the end of the award anniversary date (
i.e.,
one year following the month and day when the period of performance begins, and each
year thereafter up until a final report is required).
(c) Final financial report:
(1) Requests for extensions must be submitted to the ADO.
(2) Regardless of Agency-provided extensions for submission of the final financial report, funds will not be available for any drawdowns/payments that exceed statutory limits, as well as any expiring appropriations.
§ 550.124
Technical and property reporting requirements.
(a)
Technical performance report.
The Cooperator must submit technical performance reports at the interval required by the REE Agency, as identified on the Award Face Sheet, and may submit performance reports to the REE Agency electronically.
(1) The performance report must follow the format of the Government wide Research Performance Progress Report, and must include the information described in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(2)(i) through (iii). (2) The final performance report covers the entire period of performance of the award, and must describe progress made during the entire timeframe of the project.
(b)
Intellectual property reporting.
Reporting intellectual property resulting from a REE Agency award will be carried out through Interagency Edison (iEdison). The non-Federal entity must submit Invention Reports and Utilization Reports, including other relevant reports, at the iEdison web interface:
www.iedison.gov.
(c)
Tangible personal property report.
Upon termination or expiration of the award, the non-Federal entity must identify personal property/equipment purchased with any Federal funds under the award on the OMB-approved SF-428, “Tangible Personal Property Report and Instructions.”
PARTS 551-599 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. VI (1-1-25 Edition)
Natural Resources Conservation Serv., USDA

# CHAPTER VI—NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter VI appear at 60 FR 28514, June 1, 1995.

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL
Part
Page
600
Organization
465
601
Functions
468

# SUBCHAPTER B—CONSERVATION OPERATIONS
610
Technical assistance
472
611
Soil surveys
479
612
Snow surveys and water supply forecasts
480
613
Plant materials centers
482
614
NRCS appeal procedures
484

# SUBCHAPTER C—WATER RESOURCES
621
River basin investigations and surveys
491
622
Watershed projects
495
623
Emergency Wetlands Reserve Program
498
624
Emergency watershed protection
506
625
Healthy Forests Reserve Program
512

# SUBCHAPTER D—LONG TERM CONTRACTING
630
Long term contracting
526
631
Great Plains Conservation Program
526
632
Rural Abandoned Mine Program
530
633
Water Bank Program
542
634
Rural Clean Water Program
548
635
Equitable relief from ineligibility
568
636
Wildlife Habitat Incentive Program
570
SUBCHAPTER E [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER F—SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
650
Compliance with NEPA
582
651
[Reserved]
652
Technical service provider assistance
607
653
Technical standards
618
654
Operation and maintenance
618
655
[Reserved]
656
Procedures for the protection of archeological and historical properties encountered in NRCS-assisted programs
623
657
Prime and unique farmlands
624
658
Farmland Protection Policy Act
627

# SUBCHAPTER G—MISCELLANEOUS
660
[Reserved]
661
Public information and right to privacy
634
662-699
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL
Pt. 600

# PART 600—ORGANIZATION
Sec.
600.1
General.
600.2
National headquarters.
600.3
Regional offices.
600.4
State offices.
600.5
Area offices.
600.6
Field offices.
600.7
Specialized field offices.
600.8
Plant materials centers.
600.9
Major land resource area soil survey offices.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6962.

# Source:
65 FR 14781, Mar. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 600.1
General.
(a) The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) was authorized by the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 7 U.S.C. 6901 note) and established by Secretary's Memorandum 1010-1 (2.b.6),
Reorganization of the Department of Agriculture,
to provide national leadership in the conservation, development, and productive use of the Nation's natural resources. Such leadership encompasses the conservation of soil, water, air, plant, and animal resources with consideration of the many human (economic and sociological) interactions. NRCS is the Federal agency that works with landowners on private lands to help them conserve their natural resources. NRCS employees are highly skilled in many scientific and technical specialties, including soil science, soil conservation, agronomy, biology, agroecology, range conservation, forestry, engineering, geology, hydrology, wetlands science, cultural resources, and economics. NRCS was formerly the Soil Conservation Service (SCS) which was established by the Soil Conservation Act of 1935 (Pub. L. 74-46, 49 Stat. 163 (16 U.S.C. 590 (a-f))). NRCS has responsibility for three major areas:
(1) Soil and water conservation;
(2) Natural resource surveys including soil surveys, resources inventory, snow surveys, and water supply forecasting; and
(3) Community resource protection and management including watershed projects, river basin studies and investigations, resource conservation and development areas, land evaluation and site assessment, and emergency watershed protection. In addition, NRCS has leadership for the Wetlands Reserve Program, Environmental Quality Incentives Program, Grazing Lands Conservation Initiative, Farmland Protection Program, Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program, Forestry Incentives Program, and Conservation Farm Option. NRCS provides technical support for the Conservation Reserve Program.
(b) The NRCS organization consists of a National Headquarters located in Washington, DC; six regional offices; 50 state offices and two equivalent offices in the Caribbean Area and the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific Basin Area; approximately 2,500 field offices and 300 specialized offices; 26 plant materials centers; 17 major land resource area soil survey offices; nine national centers; and seven national institutes. A Chief who reports to the USDA Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment heads NRCS.
§ 600.2
National headquarters.
(a)
Chief.
The Chief, with assistance of the Associate Chief, is responsible for administering a coordinated national program of natural resource conservation; planning, directing, and coordinating all program, technical, and administrative activities of NRCS; developing policies and procedures; correlating NRCS conservation programs with other agencies; accepting departmental leadership for programs for other activities assigned by the Secretary of Agriculture; and serving as Equal Employment Opportunity Officer for NRCS.
(b)
Deputy chiefs.
Five deputy chiefs assist the Chief as follows:
(1)
Deputy Chief for Management.
The Deputy Chief for Management is responsible for policies, guidelines, and standards for management services,
