(4) Certified entities will prepare the conservation easement deeds, titles, and appraisals according to NRCS requirements as identified in the cooperative agreement;
(5) NRCS will conduct quality assurance reviews of a percentage of the conservation easement transactions submitted by the certified entity for payment. The review will include whether the deed, title review, or appraisals were conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth by NRCS in its certification of the eligible entity or in the cooperative agreement entered into with the certified entity; and
(6) If a certified entity closes on the easement without a pre-closing NRCS review, and the conservation easement deed, title, or appraisal fails the NRCS quality assurance review, NRCS will provide the certified entity an opportunity to correct the errors. If the certified entity fails to correct the errors to NRCS satisfaction, NRCS may consider decertification of the entity in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Review and decertification of the certified entity.
(1) The Chief will conduct a review of the certified entity a minimum of once every 3 years to ensure that the certified entities are meeting the certification criteria established in § 1491.4(d).
(2) If the Chief finds that the certified entity no longer meets the criteria in § 1491.4(d), the Chief will:
(i) Allow the certified entity a specified period of time, at a minimum 180 days, in which to take such actions as may be necessary to correct the identified deficiencies, and
(ii) If the State Conservationist has determined the certified entity does not meet the criteria established in § 1491.4(d) after the 180 days, the State Conservationist will send, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of proposed decertification of the entity's certification status or eligibility for future FRPP funding. This notice will contain what actions have not been completed to retain certification status, what actions the entity must take to request certification status, the status of funds in the cooperative agreement, and the eligibility of the entity to apply for future FRPP funds. The entity may contest the Notice of Decertification in writing to the State Conservationist within 20 calendar days of receipt of the notice of proposed decertification.
(3) The period of decertification may not exceed 3 years in duration, with duration of decertification based upon the seriousness of the facts; and
(4) The entity may be recertified upon application to NRCS, after the decertification period has expired, and when the entity has met the requirements as outlined under § 1491.4(d).
(g) Eligible land:
(1) Must be privately owned land on a farm or ranch and contain at least 50 percent prime, unique, statewide, or locally important farmland, unless otherwise determined by the State Conservationist; contain historical or archaeological resources; furthers a State or local policy consistent with the purposes of the program; and is subject to a pending offer by an eligible entity;
(2) Must be cropland, rangeland, grassland, pastureland, or forest land
that contributes to the economic viability of an agricultural operation or serves as a buffer to protect an agricultural operation from development;
(3) May include land that is incidental to the cropland, rangeland, grassland, pastureland, or forest land if the incidental land is determined by the Secretary to be necessary for the efficient administration of a conservation easement;
(4) May include parts of or entire farms or ranches;
(5) Must not include forest land of greater than two-thirds of the easement area. Land with contiguous forest that exceeds the greater of 40 acres or 20 percent of the easement area will have a forest management plan before closing, unless the Chief has reviewed and approved an alternative means by which the forest land's contribution to the economic viability of the land has been demonstrated;
(6) NRCS will not provide FRPP funds for the purchase of an easement or other interest in land on land owned in fee title by an agency of the United States, a State or local government, or by a nongovernmental organization whose purpose is to protect agricultural use and related conservation values, including those listed in the statute under eligible land, or land that is already subject to an easement or deed restriction that limits the conversion of the land to non-agricultural use;
(7) Must be owned by landowners who certify that they do not exceed the adjusted gross income limitation eligibility requirements set forth in part 1400 of this title;
(8) Must possess suitable onsite and offsite conditions which will allow the easement to be effective in achieving the purposes of the program. Unsuitable conditions may include, but are not limited to, hazardous substances on or in the vicinity of the parcel, land use surrounding the parcel that is not compatible with agriculture, and highway or utility corridors that are planned to pass through or immediately adjacent to the parcel; and
(9) May be land on which gas, oil, earth, or other mineral rights exploration has been leased or is owned by someone other than the applicant and may be offered for participation in the program. However, if an applicant submits an offer for an easement project, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) will assess the potential impact that the third party rights may have upon achieving the program purposes. USDA reserves the right to deny funding for any application where there are exceptions to clear title on any property.
(h) Prior to closing, the value of the conservation easement must be appraised. Appraisals must be completed and signed by a State-certified general appraiser and must contain a disclosure statement by the appraiser. The appraisal must conform to the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices or the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions, as selected by the eligible entity. State Conservationists will provide the guidelines through which NRCS will review appraisals for quality assurance purposes. Entities must provide a copy of the appraisal to NRCS.
(i) The landowner will be responsible for complying with the Highly Erodible Land and Wetland Conservation provisions of the Food Security Act of 1985 (1985 Act), as amended and 7 CFR part 12.
(j) The entity may substitute acres within a pending offer. Substituted acres must not decrease the value of the offered easement or the value of the parcel in meeting program purposes. With the State Conservationist's approval, a cooperating entity may substitute pending offers within their cooperative agreement. The landowner and parcel must meet eligibility criteria as described in § 1491.4(e). The State Conservationist may require re-ranking of substituted acres and substituted parcels.
[76 FR 4039, Jan. 24, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 6944, Feb. 10, 2012]
§ 1491.5
Application procedures.
(a) An Indian Tribe, State, unit of local government, or a nongovernmental organization will submit an application to the State Conservationist in the State where parcels are located.
(b) The State Conservationist will determine whether the Indian Tribe, State, unit of local government, or a
nongovernmental organization is eligible to participate in FRPP based on the criteria set forth in § 1491.4(c).
(c) The Chief will determine whether an eligible entity is a certified entity based on the criteria set forth in § 1491.4(d), information provided by the application, and data in the national FRPP database.
(d) The State Conservationist will notify each Indian Tribe, State, unit of local government, or a nongovernmental organization if it has been determined eligible, certified, or ineligible.
(e) Eligible entities with cooperative agreements entered into after the effective date of this part will not have to resubmit an annual application for the duration of the cooperative agreement. Entities may reapply for eligibility when their cooperative agreements expire.
(f) Throughout the fiscal year, eligible entities may submit to the appropriate State Conservationist applications for parcels, in that State, with supporting information to be scored, ranked, and considered for funding.
(g) At the end of each fiscal year, the lists of pending, unfunded parcels will be cancelled unless the eligible entity requests that specific parcels be considered for funding in the next fiscal year. Entities must submit a new list of parcels each fiscal year in order to be considered for funding unless they request that parcels from the previous fiscal year be considered.
§ 1491.6
Ranking considerations and proposal selection.
(a) Before the State Conservationist can score and rank the parcels for funding, the eligibility of the landowner and the land must be assessed.
(b) The State Conservationist will use national and State criteria to score and rank parcels. The national ranking criteria will be established by the Chief, and the State criteria will be determined by the State Conservationist, with advice from the State Technical Committee. The national criteria will comprise at least half of the ranking system score.
(c) At least 30 days before the ranking of parcels, the State Conservationist will announce the date on which ranking of parcels will occur. A State Conservationist may announce more than one date of ranking in a fiscal year.
(d) All parcels submitted throughout the fiscal year will be scored. All parcels will be ranked together in accordance with the national and State ranking criteria before parcels are selected for funding.
(e) The parcels selected for funding will be listed on the agreements of the entities that submitted the parcels, and the agreements will be signed by the State Conservationist and the eligible entity. Funds for each fiscal year's parcels will be obligated with a new signature each year on an amendment to the agreement. Parcels funded on each fiscal year's amendment will have a separate deadline for closing and requesting reimbursement.
(f) The national ranking criteria are:
(1) Percent of prime, unique, and important farmland in the parcel to be protected;
(2) Percent of cropland, pastureland, grassland, and rangeland in the parcel to be protected;
(3) Ratio of the total acres of land in the parcel to be protected to average farm size in the county according to the most recent USDA Census of Agriculture;
(4) Decrease in the percentage of acreage of farm and ranch land in the county in which the parcel is located between the last two USDA Censuses of Agriculture;
(5) Percent population growth in the county as documented by the United States Census;
(6) Population density (population per square mile) as documented by the most recent United States Census;
(7) Proximity of the parcel to other protected land, such as military installations, land owned in fee title by the United States or an Indian Tribe, State government or local government, or by a nongovernmental organization whose purpose is to protect agricultural use and related conservation values, or land that is already subject to an easement or deed restriction that limits the conversion of the land to non-agricultural use;
(8) Proximity of the parcel to other agricultural operations and infrastructure; and
(9) Other additional criteria as determined by the Chief.
(g) State or local criteria as determined by the State Conservationist, with advice of the State Technical Committee, may include:
(1) The location of a parcel in an area zoned for agricultural use;
(2) The performance of an eligible entity's experience in managing and enforcing easements. Performance must be measured by the closing efficiency or percentage of parcels that have been monitored and the percentage of monitoring results that have been reported. The number of years of an eligible entity's existence, budget, or staffing level will not be used as a ranking factor;
(3) Multifunctional benefits of farm and ranch land protection including social, economic, historical and archaeological, and environmental benefits;
(4) Geographic regions where the enrollment of particular lands may help achieve national, State, and regional conservation goals and objectives, or enhance existing government or private conservation projects;
(5) Diversity of natural resources to be protected;
(6) Score in the Land Evaluation and Site Assessment system. This score serves as a measure of agricultural viability (access to markets and infrastructure); and
(7) Existence of a farm or ranch succession plan or similar plan established to encourage farm viability for future generations.
(h) State ranking criteria will be developed on a State-by-State basis. The State Conservationist will make available a full listing of applicable national and State ranking criteria.

# Subpart B—Cooperative Agreements and Conservation Easement Deeds
§ 1491.20
Cooperative agreements.
(a) NRCS, on behalf of the CCC, will enter into a cooperative agreement with entities selected for funding. Once a proposal is selected by the State Conservationist, the eligible entity must work with the State Conservationist to finalize and sign the cooperative agreement, incorporating all necessary FRPP requirements. The cooperative agreement must address:
(1) The interests in land to be acquired, including the United States' right of enforcement, as well as the form and other terms and conditions of the easement deed;
(2) The management and enforcement of the rights on lands acquired with FRPP funds;
(3) The responsibilities of NRCS;
(4) The responsibilities of the eligible entity on lands acquired with FRPP funds;
(5) The allowance of parcel substitution upon mutual agreement of the parties; and
(6) Other requirements deemed necessary by NRCS to meet the purposes of this part or protect the interests of the United States.
(b) The term of cooperative agreements will be 5 years for certified entities and 3 years for other eligible entities.
(c) The cooperative agreement will include an attachment listing the parcels accepted by the State Conservationist. This list will include landowners' names and addresses, acreage, the estimated fair market value, the estimated Federal contribution, and other relevant information. The cooperative agreement template will be made available by the State Conservationist.
(d) The cooperative agreement will incorporate the provisions necessary for the eligible entity to comply with applicable registration and reporting requirements of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282, as amended) and 2 CFR parts 25 and 170.
§ 1491.21
Funding.
(a) Subject to the statutory limits, the State Conservationist, in coordination with the eligible entity, will determine the NRCS share of the cost of purchasing a conservation easement or other interest in the land.
(b) NRCS may provide up to 50 percent of the appraised fair market value of the conservation easement consistent with § 1491.4(g). An eligible entity will share in the cost of purchasing
a conservation easement in accordance with the limitations of this part.
(c) A landowner may make donations toward the acquisition of the conservation easement.
(d) The eligible entity must provide a minimum of 25 percent of the purchase price of the conservation easement.
(e) FRPP funds may not be used for expenditures such as appraisals, surveys, title insurance, legal fees, costs of easement monitoring, and other related administrative and transaction costs incurred by the eligible entity.
(f) NRCS will conduct its technical and administrative review of appraisals and its hazardous materials reviews with FRPP funds.
(g) If the State Conservationist determines that the purchase of two or more conservation easements are comparable in achieving FRPP goals, the State Conservationist will not assign a higher priority to any one of these conservation easements solely on the basis of lesser cost to FRPP.
(h) Environmental Services Credits:
(1) NRCS asserts no direct or indirect interest in environmental credits that may result from or be associated with an FRPP easement;
(2) NRCS retains the authority to ensure that the requirements for FRPP-funded easements are met and maintained consistent with this part; and
(3) If activities required under an environmental credit agreement may affect land covered under a FRPP easement, landowners are encouraged to request a compatibility assessment from the eligible entity prior to entering into such agreements.
§ 1491.22
Conservation easement deeds.
(a) Under FRPP, a landowner grants an easement to an eligible entity with which NRCS has entered into an FRPP cooperative agreement. The easement will require that the easement area be maintained in accordance with FRPP goals and objectives for the term of the easement.
(b) Pending offers by an eligible entity must be for acquiring an easement in perpetuity, except where State law prohibits a permanent easement. In such cases where State law limits the term of a conservation easement, the easement term will be for the maximum allowed under State law.
(c) The eligible entity may use its own terms and conditions in the conservation easement deed, but the conservation easement deed must be reviewed and approved by National Headquarters in advance of use. Individual conservation easement deeds used by the eligible entity will be submitted to National Headquarters at least 90 days before the planned closing date. Eligible entities with multiple parcels in a cooperative agreement may submit a conservation easement deed template for review and approval. The deed templates must be reviewed and approved by National Headquarters in advance of use. For eligible entities that have not been certified, the NRCS State offices will review prior to closing the conservation easement deeds for individual parcels to ensure that they contain the same language as approved by the national office and that the appropriate site-specific information has been included. NRCS reserves the right to require additional specific language or to remove language in the conservation easement deed to protect the interests of the United States. The Chief may exercise the option to promulgate standard minimum conservation deed requirements as a condition for receiving FRPP funds.
(d) The conveyance document must include a right of enforcement clause. NRCS will specify the terms for the right of enforcement clause to read as set forth in the FRPP cooperative agreement. This right is a vested property right and cannot be condemned by State or local government.
(e) As a condition for participation, a conservation plan will be developed by NRCS in consultation with the landowner and implemented according to the FOTG. NRCS may work through the local conservation district in the development of the conservation plan. The conservation plan will be developed and managed in accordance with the 1985 Act, 7 CFR part 12 or subsequent regulations, and other requirements as determined by the State Conservationist. To ensure compliance with this conservation plan, the easement will grant to the United States,
through NRCS, its successors or assigns, a right of access to the easement area.
(f) The eligible entity will acquire, hold, manage, and enforce the easement. The eligible entity may have the option to enter into an agreement with governmental or private organizations to carry out easement stewardship responsibilities.
(g) NRCS will sign an acceptance of the conservation easement, concurring with the terms of the conservation easement and accepting its interest in the conservation easement deed.
(h) All conservation easement deeds acquired with FRPP funds must be recorded. Proof of recordation will be provided to NRCS by the eligible entity.
(i) Impervious surfaces will not exceed 2 percent of the FRPP easement area, excluding NRCS-approved conservation practices. The State Conservationist may waive the 2 percent impervious surface limitation on a parcel-by-parcel basis, provided that no more than 10 percent of the easement area is covered by impervious surfaces. Before waiving the 2 percent limitation, the State Conservationist must consider, at a minimum, population density, the ratio of open prime other important farmland versus impervious surfaces on the easement area, the impact to water quality concerns in the area, the type of agricultural operation, and parcel size. Eligible entities may submit an impervious surface limitation waiver process to the State Conservationist for review and consideration. The eligible entities must apply approved impervious surface limitation waiver processes on a parcel-by-parcel basis. State Conservationists will not approve blanket waivers of the impervious surface limitation for all parcels administered by the eligible entity without regard for the characteristics of individual parcels. All FRPP easements must include language limiting the amount of impervious surfaces within the easement area.
(j) The conservation easement deed must include an indemnification clause requiring the landowner to indemnify and hold harmless the United States from any liability arising from or related to the property enrolled in FRPP.
(k) The conservation easement deed must include an amendment clause requiring that any changes to the easement deed after its recordation must be consistent with the purposes of the conservation easement and this part. The conservation easement deed must require that NRCS approve any substantive amendment.

# Subpart C—General Administration
§ 1491.30
Violations and remedies.
(a) In the event of a violation of the easement terms, the eligible entity will notify the landowner. The landowner may be given reasonable notice and, where appropriate, an opportunity to voluntarily correct the violation in accordance with the terms of the conservation easement.
(b) In the event that the eligible entity fails to enforce any of the terms of the conservation easement as determined by the Chief, the Chief or his or her successors or assigns may exercise the United States' rights to enforce the terms of the conservation easement through any and all authorities available under Federal or State law.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, NRCS, upon notification to the landowner, reserves the right to enter upon the easement area at any time to monitor conservation plan implementation or remedy deficiencies or easement violations as it relates to the conservation plan. The entry may be made at the discretion of NRCS when the actions are deemed necessary to protect highly erodible soils and wetland resources. The landowner will be liable for any costs incurred by NRCS as a result of the landowner's negligence or failure to comply with the easement requirements as it relates to conservation plan violations.
(d) The United States will be entitled to recover any and all administrative and legal costs from the participating eligible entity, including attorney's fees or expenses, associated with any enforcement or remedial action as it relates to the enforcement of the FRPP easement.
(e) In instances where an easement is terminated or extinguished, NRCS will collect CCC's share of the conservation
easement based on the appraised fair market value of the conservation easement at the time the easement is extinguished or terminated. The CCC's share will be in proportion to its percentage of original investment.
(f) In the event NRCS determines it must exercise its rights identified under a conservation easement or other interest in land, NRCS will provide written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the eligible entity at the eligible entity's last known address. The notice will set forth the nature of the noncompliance by the eligible entity and a 60-day period to cure. If the eligible entity fails to cure within the 60-day period, NRCS will take the action specified under the notice. NRCS reserves the right to decline to provide a period to cure if NRCS determines that imminent harm may result to the conservation values or other interest in land it seeks to protect.
§ 1491.31
Appeals.
(a) A person or eligible entity which has submitted an FRPP proposal and is therefore participating in FRPP, may obtain a review of any administrative determination concerning eligibility for participation utilizing the administrative appeal regulations provided in 7 CFR part 614.
(b) Before a person or eligible entity may seek judicial review of any administrative action taken under this part, the person or eligible entity must exhaust all administrative appeal procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, and for the purposes of judicial review, no decision will be a final agency action except a decision of the Chief under these provisions.
(c) Enforcement action undertaken by NRCS in furtherance of its vested property rights are under the jurisdiction of the Federal District Court and not subject to review under administrative appeal regulations.
§ 1491.32
Scheme or device.
(a) If it is determined by NRCS that a eligible entity has employed a scheme or device to defeat the purposes of this part, any part of any program payment otherwise due or paid to such an eligible entity during the applicable period may be withheld or be required to be refunded, with interest, as determined appropriate by NRCS on behalf of the CCC.
(b) A scheme or device includes, but is not limited to, coercion, fraud, misrepresentation, and depriving any other person or entity of payments for easements for the purpose of obtaining a payment to which a person would otherwise not be entitled.
PART 1492 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1493

# PART 1493—CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Restrictions and Criteria for Export Credit Guarantee Program
Sec.
1493.1
General statement.
1493.2
Purposes of programs.
1493.3
Restrictions on programs and cargo preference statement.
1493.4
Criteria for country and regional allocations.
1493.5
Criteria for agricultural commodity allocations.

# Subpart B—CCC Export Credit Guarantee (GSM-102) Program Operations
1493.10
General statement.
1493.20
Definition of terms.
1493.30
Information required for Exporter participation.
1493.40
Information required for U.S. Financial Institution participation.
1493.50
Information required for Foreign Financial Institution participation.
1493.60
Certification requirements for program participation.
1493.70
Application for Payment Guarantee.
1493.80
Certification requirements for obtaining Payment Guarantee.
1493.90
Special requirements of the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit and the Terms and Conditions Document, if applicable.
1493.100
Terms and requirements of the Payment Guarantee.
1493.110
Guarantee fees.
1493.120
Assignment of the Payment Guarantee.
1493.130
Evidence of export.
1493.140
Certification requirements for the evidence of export.
1493.150
Proof of entry.
1493.160
Notice of default.
1493.170
Claims for default.
1493.180
Payment for default.
1493.190
Recovery of defaulted payments.
1493.191
Additional obligations and requirements
1493.192
Dispute resolution and appeals.
1493.195
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Subpart C—CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
1493.200
General statement.
1493.210
Definition of terms.
1493.220
Information required for seller participation.
1493.230
Information required for U.S. financial institution participation.
1493.240
Information required for foreign financial institution participation.
1493.250
Certification requirements for program participation.
1493.260
Application for payment guarantee.
1493.270
Certifications required for obtaining payment guarantee.
1493.280
Special requirements of the foreign financial institution letter of credit and terms and conditions document, if applicable.
1493.290
Terms and requirements of the payment guarantee.
1493.300
Fees.
1493.310
Assignment of the payment guarantee.
1493.320
Evidence of performance.
1493.330
Certification requirements for the evidence of performance.
1493.340
Proof of entry.
1493.350
Notice of default.
1493.360
Claims for default.
1493.370
Payment for default.
1493.380
Recovery of defaulted payments.
1493.385
Additional obligations and requirements.
1493.390
Dispute resolution and appeals.
1493.395
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Subpart D—CCC Supplier Credit Guarantee Program Operations
1493.400
General statement.
1493.410
Definition of terms.
1493.420
Information required for program participation.
1493.430
Application for a payment guarantee.
1493.440
Certification requirements for payment guarantee.
1493.450
Payment guarantee.
1493.460
Guarantee rates and fees.
1493.470
Evidence of export.
1493.480
Certification requirements for the evidence of export.
1493.490
Proof of entry.
1493.500
Notice of default and claims for loss.
1493.510
Payment for loss.
1493.520
Recovery of losses.
1493.530
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 5602, 5622, 5661, 5662, 5663, 5664, 5676; 15 U.S.C. 714b(d), 714c(f).

# Source:
59 FR 52876, Oct. 19, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Restrictions and Criteria for Export Credit Guarantee Programs

# Source:
79 FR 68595, Nov. 18, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1493.1
General statement.
This subpart sets forth the restrictions that apply to the issuance and use of Payment Guarantees under the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) Export Credit Guarantee (GSM-102) Program and Facility Guarantee Program (FGP), the criteria considered by CCC in determining the annual allocations of Payment Guarantees to be made available with respect to each participating country and region, and the criteria considered by CCC in the review and approval of proposed allocation levels for specific U.S. Agricultural Commodities to these countries and regions.
§ 1493.2
Purposes of programs.
CCC is authorized to issue Payment Guarantees:
(a) To increase exports of U.S. Agricultural Commodities and expand access to trade finance;
(b) To assist countries, particularly developing countries and emerging markets, in meeting their food and fiber needs;
(c) To establish or improve facilities and infrastructure in emerging markets to expand exports of U.S. Agricultural Commodities; or
(d) For such other purposes as the Secretary of Agriculture determines appropriate.
§ 1493.3
Restrictions on programs and cargo preference statement.
(a)
Restrictions on use of Payment Guarantees.
(1) Payment Guarantees authorized under these regulations shall not be used for foreign aid, foreign policy, or debt rescheduling purposes.
(2) CCC shall not make Payment Guarantees available in connection with sales of U.S. Agricultural Commodities to any country that the Secretary determines cannot adequately
service the debt associated with such sale.
(3) CCC shall not make Payment Guarantees available in connection with sales of U.S. Agricultural Commodities financed by any Foreign Financial Institution that CCC determines cannot adequately service the debt associated with such sale.
(b)
Cargo preference laws.
The provisions of the cargo preference laws do not apply to export sales with respect to which Payment Guarantees are issued under these programs.
§ 1493.4
Criteria for country and regional allocations.
The criteria considered by CCC in reviewing proposals for country and regional allocations will include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) Potential benefits that the extension of Payment Guarantees would provide for the development, expansion, or maintenance of the market for particular U.S. Agricultural Commodities in the importing country;
(b) Financial and economic ability and/or willingness of the country of obligation to adequately service CCC guaranteed debt (“country of obligation” is the country whose Foreign Financial Institution obligation is guaranteed by CCC);
(c) Financial status of participating Foreign Financial Institutions in the country of obligation as it would affect their ability to adequately service CCC guaranteed debt;
(d) Political stability of the country of obligation as it would affect its ability and/or willingness to adequately service CCC guaranteed debt; and
(e) Current status of debt either owed by the country of obligation or by the participating Foreign Financial Institutions to CCC or to lenders protected by CCC's Payment Guarantees.
§ 1493.5
Criteria for agricultural commodity allocations.
The criteria considered by CCC in determining U.S. Agricultural Commodity allocations within a specific country or regional allocation will include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) Potential benefits that the extension of Payment Guarantees would provide for the development, expansion or maintenance of the market in the importing country for the particular U.S. Agricultural Commodity under consideration;
(b) The best use to be made of the Payment Guarantees in assisting the importing country in meeting its particular needs for food and fiber, as may be determined through consultations with private buyers and/or representatives of the government of the importing country; and
(c) Evaluation, in terms of program purposes, of the relative benefits of providing Payment Guarantee coverage for sales of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity under consideration compared to providing coverage for sales of other U.S. Agricultural Commodities.

# Subpart B—CCC Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-102) Operations

# Source:
79 FR 68596, Nov. 18, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1493.10
General statement.
(a)
Overview.
The Export Credit Guarantee (GSM-102) Program of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) was developed to expand U.S. Agricultural Commodity exports by making available Payment Guarantees to encourage U.S. private sector financing of foreign purchases of U.S. Agricultural Commodities on credit terms. The Payment Guarantee issued under GSM-102 is an agreement by CCC to pay the Exporter, or the U.S. Financial Institution that may take assignment of the Payment Guarantee, specified amounts of principal and interest in case of default by the Foreign Financial Institution that issued the Letter of Credit for the export sale covered by the Payment Guarantee. Under the GSM-102 program, maximum repayment terms may vary based on risk of default, as determined by CCC. The program operates in a manner intended not to interfere with markets for cash sales and is targeted toward those countries that have sufficient financial strength so that foreign exchange will be available for scheduled payments. In providing this program, CCC seeks to expand and/or maintain market opportunities for U.S.
agricultural exporters and assist long-term market development for U.S. Agricultural Commodities.
(b)
Program administration.
The GSM-102 program is administered under the direction of the General Sales Manager and Vice President of CCC, pursuant to this subpart, subpart A, and any Program Announcements issued by CCC. From time to time, CCC may issue a notice to participants on the USDA Web site to remind participants of the requirements of the GSM-102 program or to clarify the program requirements contained in these regulations in a manner not inconsistent with this subpart and subpart A. Program information, such as eligible U.S. Agricultural Commodities and approved U.S. and Foreign Financial Institutions, is available on the USDA Web site.
(c)
Country and regional program announcements.
From time to time, CCC will issue a Program Announcement on the USDA Web site to announce a GSM-102 program for a specific country or region. The Program Announcement for a country or region will designate specific U.S. Agricultural Commodities or products thereof, or designate that all eligible U.S. Agricultural Commodities are available under the announcement. The Program Announcement will contain any requirements applicable to that country or region as determined by CCC.
§ 1493.20
Definition of terms.
Terms set forth in this subpart, on the USDA Web site (including in Program Announcements and notices to participants), and in any CCC-originated documents pertaining to the GSM-102 Program will have the following meanings:
Affiliate.
Entities are affiliates of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other or a third person controls or has the power to control both. Control may include, but is not limited to: Interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among family members; shared facilities and equipment; or common use of employees.
Assignee.
A U.S. Financial Institution that has obtained the legal right to make a claim and receive the payment of proceeds under the Payment Guarantee.
Business Day.
A day during which employees of the U.S. Department of Agriculture in the Washington, DC metropolitan area are on official duty during normal business hours.
CCC.
The Commodity Credit Corporation, an agency and instrumentality of the United States within the Department of Agriculture, authorized pursuant to the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq).
CCC Late Interest.
Interest payable by CCC pursuant to § 1493.180(c).
Cost and Freight (CFR).
A customary trade term for sea and inland waterway transport only, as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce, Incoterms 2010 (or as superseded).
Cost Insurance and Freight (CIF).
A customary trade term for sea and inland waterway transport only, as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce, Incoterms 2010 (or as superseded).
Date of Export.
One of the following dates, depending upon the method of shipment: The on-board date of an ocean bill of lading or the on-board ocean carrier date of an intermodal bill of lading; the on-board date of an airway bill; or, if exported by rail or truck, the date of entry shown on an entry certificate or similar document issued and signed by an official of the government of the importing country.
Date of Sale.
The earliest date on which a Firm Export Sales Contract exists between the Exporter, or an Intervening Purchaser, if applicable, and the Importer.
Director.
The Director, Credit Programs Division, Office of Trade Programs, Foreign Agricultural Service, or the Director's designee.
Discounts and Allowances.
Any consideration provided directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of the Exporter or an Intervening Purchaser, to the Importer in connection with an Eligible Export Sale, above and beyond the commodity's value, stated on the appropriate FOB, FAS, FCA, CFR or CIF basis (or other basis specified in Incoterms 2010, or as superseded), which includes, but is not limited to, the provision of additional goods, services or benefits; the promise to provide additional goods,
services or benefits in the future; financial rebates; the assumption of any financial or contractual obligations; commissions where the Importer requires the Exporter to employ and compensate a specified agent as a condition of concluding the Eligible Export Sale; the whole or partial release of the Importer from any financial or contractual obligations; or settlements made in favor of the Importer for quality or weight.
Eligible Export Sale.
An export sale of U.S. Agricultural Commodities in which the obligation of payment for the portion registered under the GSM-102 program arises solely and exclusively from a Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit or Terms and Conditions Document issued in connection with a Payment Guarantee.
Eligible Interest.
The amount of interest that CCC agrees to pay the Holder of the Payment Guarantee in the event that CCC pays a claim for default of Ordinary Interest. Eligible Interest shall be the lesser of:
(1) The amount calculated using the interest rate specified between the Holder of the Payment Guarantee and the Foreign Financial Institution; or
(2) The amount calculated using the specified percentage of the Treasury bill investment rate set forth on the face of the Payment Guarantee.
Exported Value.
(1) Where CCC announces Payment Guarantee coverage on a FAS, FCA, or FOB basis and:
(i) Where the U.S. Agricultural Commodity is sold on a FAS, FCA, or FOB basis, the value, FAS, FCA, or FOB basis, port of shipment, of the export sale, reduced by the value of any Discounts and Allowances granted to the Importer in connection with such sale; or
(ii) Where the U.S. Agricultural Commodity was sold on a CFR or CIF basis, point of entry, the value of the export sale, FAS, FCA or FOB, port of shipment, is measured by the CFR or CIF value of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity less the cost of ocean freight, as determined at the time of application and, in the case of CIF sales, less the cost of marine and war risk insurance, as determined at the time of application, reduced by the value of any Discounts and Allowances granted to the Importer in connection with the sale of the commodity; or
(2) Where CCC announces coverage on a CFR or CIF basis, and where the U.S. Agricultural Commodity is sold on a CFR or CIF basis, port of destination, the total value of the export sale, CFR or CIF basis, port of destination, reduced by the value of any Discounts and Allowances granted to the Importer in connection with the sale of the commodity; or
(3) When a CFR or CIF U.S. Agricultural Commodity export sale involves the performance of non-freight services to be performed outside the United States (e.g., services such as bagging bulk cargo) which are not normally included in ocean freight contracts, the value of such services and any related materials not exported from the U.S. with the commodity must also be deducted from the CFR or CIF sales price in determining the Exported Value.
Exporter.
A seller of U.S. Agricultural Commodities that is both qualified in accordance with the provisions of § 1493.30 and the applicant for the Payment Guarantee.
Firm Export Sales Contract.
The written sales contract entered into between the Exporter and the Importer (or, if applicable, the written sales contracts between the Exporter and the Intervening Purchaser and the Intervening Purchaser and the Importer) which sets forth the terms and conditions of an Eligible Export Sale of the eligible U.S. Agricultural Commodity from the Exporter to the Importer (or, if applicable, the sale of the eligible U.S. Agricultural Commodity from the Exporter to the Intervening Purchaser and from the Intervening Purchaser to the Importer). Written evidence of a sale may be in the form of a signed sales contract, a written offer and acceptance between parties, or other documentary evidence of sale. The written evidence of sale for the purposes of the GSM-102 program must, at a minimum, document the following information: The eligible U.S. Agricultural Commodity, quantity, quality specifications, delivery terms (FOB, C
F, FCA, etc.) to the eligible country or region, delivery period, unit price, payment terms, Date
of Sale, and evidence of agreement between Importer (and Intervening Purchaser, if applicable) and Exporter. The Firm Export Sales Contract between the Exporter and the Importer (or, if applicable, between the Exporter and the Intervening Purchaser and between the Intervening Purchaser and the Importer) may be conditioned upon CCC's approval of the Exporter's application for a Payment Guarantee.
Foreign Financial Institution.
A financial institution (including foreign branches of U.S. financial institutions):
(1) Organized and licensed under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States;
(2) Not domiciled in the United States; and
(3) Subject to the banking or other financial regulatory authority of a foreign jurisdiction (except for multilateral and sovereign institutions).
Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit or Letter of Credit.
An irrevocable documentary letter of credit, subject to the current revision of the Uniform Customs and Practices (UCP) for Documentary Credits (International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 600, or latest revision), and, if electronic documents are to be utilized, the current revision of the Supplement to the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits for Electronic Presentation (eUCP) providing for payment in U.S. dollars against stipulated documents and issued in favor of the Exporter by a CCC-approved Foreign Financial Institution.
Free Alongside Ship (FAS).
A customary trade term for sea and inland waterway transport only, as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce, Incoterms 2010 (or as superseded).
Free Carrier (FCA).
A customary trade term for all modes of transportation, as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce, Incoterms 2010 (or as superseded).
Free on Board (FOB).
A customary trade term for sea and inland waterway transport only, as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce, Incoterms 2010 (or as superseded).
GSM.
The General Sales Manager, Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA, acting in his or her capacity as Vice President, CCC, or designee.
Guaranteed Value.
The maximum amount indicated on the face of the Payment Guarantee, exclusive of interest, that CCC agrees to pay the Holder of the Payment Guarantee.
Holder of the Payment Guarantee.
The Exporter or the Assignee of the Payment Guarantee with the legal right to make a claim and receive the payment of proceeds from CCC under the Payment Guarantee in case of default by the Foreign Financial Institution.
Importer.
A foreign buyer that enters into a Firm Export Sales Contract with an Exporter or with an Intervening Purchaser for the sale of the U.S. Agricultural Commodities to be shipped from the United States to the destination country or region under the Payment Guarantee.
Importer's Representative.
An entity having a physical office and that is either organized under the laws of or registered to do business in the destination country or region specified in the Payment Guarantee and that is authorized to act on the Importer's behalf with respect to the sale described in the Firm Export Sales Contract.
Incoterms.
Trade terms developed by the International Chamber of Commerce in Incoterms 2010 (or latest revision) which define the respective obligations of the buyer and seller in a sales contract.
Intervening Purchaser.
A party that is not located in the country or region of destination specified in the Payment Guarantee and that enters into a Firm Export Sales Contract to purchase U.S. Agricultural Commodities from an Exporter and sell the same U.S. Agricultural Commodities to an Importer.
Ordinary Interest.
Interest (other than Post Default Interest) charged on the principal amount identified in the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit or, if applicable, the Terms and Conditions Document.
Payment Guarantee.
An agreement under the GSM-102 program by which CCC, in consideration of a fee paid, and in reliance upon the statements and declarations of the Exporter, subject to the terms set forth in the written guarantee, this subpart, and any applicable Program Announcements, agrees to
pay the Holder of the Payment Guarantee in the event of a default by a Foreign Financial Institution on its Repayment Obligation under the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit issued in connection with a guaranteed sale or, if applicable, under the Terms and Conditions Document.
Port Value.
(1) Where CCC announces coverage on a FAS, FCA, or FOB basis and:
(i) Where the U.S. Agricultural Commodity is sold on a FAS, FCA, or FOB basis, port of shipment, the value, FAS, FCA, or FOB basis, port of shipment, of the export sale, including the upward loading tolerance, if any, as provided by the Firm Export Sales Contract, reduced by the value of any Discounts and Allowances granted to the Importer in connection with such sale; or
(ii) Where the U.S. Agricultural Commodity was sold on a CFR or CIF basis, port of destination, the value of the export sale, FAS, FCA, or FOB, port of shipment, including the upward loading tolerance, if any, as provided by the Firm Export Sales Contract, is measured by the CFR or CIF value of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity less the value of ocean freight and, in the case of CIF sales, less the value of marine and war risk insurance, reduced by the value of any Discounts and Allowances granted to the Importer in connection with the sale of the commodity.
(2) Where CCC announces coverage on a CFR or CIF basis and where the U.S. Agricultural Commodity was sold on CFR or CIF basis, port of destination, the total value of the export sale, CFR or CIF basis, port of destination, including the upward loading tolerance, if any, as provided by the Firm Export Sales Contract, reduced by the value of any Discounts and Allowances granted to the Importer in connection with the sale of the commodity.
(3) When a CFR or CIF U.S. Agricultural Commodity export sale involves the performance of non-freight services to be performed outside the United States (e.g., services such as bagging bulk cargo), which are not normally included in ocean freight contracts, the value of such services and any related materials not exported from the U.S. with the commodity must also be deducted from the CFR or CIF sales price in determining the Port Value.
Post Default Interest.
Interest charged on amounts in default that begins to accrue upon default of payment, as specified in the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit or, if applicable, in the Terms and Conditions Document.
Principal.
A principal of a corporation or other legal entity is an individual serving as an officer, director, owner, partner, or other individual with management or supervisory responsibilities for such corporation or legal entity.
Program Announcement.
An announcement issued by CCC on the USDA Web site that provides information on specific country and regional programs and may identify eligible U.S. Agricultural Commodities and countries, length of credit periods which may be covered, and other information.
Repayment Obligation.
A contractual commitment by the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Letter of Credit in connection with an Eligible Export Sale to make payment(s) on principal amount(s), plus any Ordinary Interest and Post Default Interest, in U.S. dollars, to an Exporter or U.S. Financial Institution on deferred payment terms consistent with those permitted under CCC's Payment Guarantee. The Repayment Obligation must be documented using one of the methods specified in § 1493.90.
Repurchase Agreement.
A written agreement under which the Holder of the Payment Guarantee may from time to time enter into transactions in which the Holder of the Payment Guarantee agrees to sell to another party Foreign Financial Institution Letter(s) of Credit and, if applicable, Terms and Conditions Document(s), secured by the Payment Guarantee, and repurchase the same Foreign Financial Institution Letter(s) of Credit and Terms and Conditions Documents secured by the Payment Guarantee, on demand or date certain at an agreed upon price.
SAM (System for Award Management).
A Federal Government owned and operated free Web site that contains information on parties excluded from receiving Federal contracts or certain subcontracts and excluded from certain
types of Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits.
Terms and Conditions Document.
A document specifically identified and referred to in the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit which may contain the Repayment Obligation and other special requirements specified in § 1493.90.
United States or U.S.
Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
U.S. Agricultural Commodity or U.S. Agricultural Commodities.
(1)(i) An agricultural commodity or product entirely produced in the United States; or
(ii) A product of an agricultural commodity—
(A) 90 percent or more of the agricultural components of which by weight, excluding packaging and added water, is entirely produced in the United States; and
(B) That the Secretary determines to be a high value agricultural product.
(2) For purposes of this definition, fish entirely produced in the United States include fish harvested by a documented fishing vessel as defined in title 46, United States Code, in waters that are not waters (including the territorial sea) of a foreign country.
USDA.
United States Department of Agriculture.
U.S. Financial Institution.
A financial institution (including U.S. branches of Foreign Financial Institutions):
(1) Organized and licensed under the laws of a jurisdiction within the United States;
(2) Domiciled in the United States; and
(3) Subject to the banking or other financial regulatory authority jurisdiction within the United States.
Weighted Average Export Date.
The mean Date of Export for all exports within a 30 calendar day period, weighted by the guaranteed portion of the Exported Value of each export.
§ 1493.30
Information required for Exporter participation.
Exporters must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the GSM-102 Program.
(a)
Qualification requirements.
To qualify for participation in the GSM-102 program, an applicant must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:
(1) For the applicant:
(i) The name and full U.S. address (including the full 9-digit zip code) of the applicant's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence. A post office box is not an acceptable address. If the applicant has multiple offices, the address included in the information should be that which is pertinent to the GSM-102 export sales contemplated by the applicant;
(ii) Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number;
(iii) Employer Identification Number (EIN—also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number);
(iv) Telephone and fax numbers;
(v) Email address (if applicable);
(vi) Business Web site (if applicable);
(vii) Contact name;
(viii) Statement indicating whether the applicant is a U.S. domestic entity or a foreign entity domiciled in the United States; and
(ix) The form of business entity of the applicant (e.g., sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, etc.) and the U.S. jurisdiction under which such entity is organized and authorized to conduct business. Such jurisdictions are a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States. Upon request by CCC, the applicant must provide written evidence that such entity has been organized in a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or a territory or possession of the United States.
(2) For the applicant's headquarters office:
(i) The name and full address of the applicant's headquarters office. A post office box is not an acceptable address; and
(ii) Telephone and fax numbers.
(3) For the applicant's agent for the service of process:
(i) The name and full U.S. address of the applicant's agent's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence;
(ii) Telephone and fax numbers;
(iii) Email address (if applicable); and
(iv) Contact name.
(4) A description of the applicant's business. Applicants must provide the following information:
(i) Nature of the applicant's business (e.g., agricultural producer, commodity trader, consulting firm, etc.);
(ii) Explanation of the applicant's experience/history with U.S. Agricultural Commodities for the preceding three years, including a description of such commodities;
(iii) Explanation of the applicant's experience/history exporting U.S. Agricultural Commodities, including number of years involved in exporting, types of products exported, and destination of exports for the preceding three years; and
(iv) Whether or not the applicant is a “small or medium enterprise” (SME) as defined on the USDA Web site;
(5) A listing of any related companies (e.g., Affiliates, subsidiaries, or companies otherwise related through common ownership) currently qualified to participate in CCC export programs;
(6) A statement describing the applicant's participation, if any, during the past three years in U.S. Government programs, contracts or agreements; and
(7) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.60(a) are hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.60(a). The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.
(b)
Qualification notification.
CCC will promptly notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.
(c)
Previous qualification.
Any Exporter not submitting an application to CCC for a Payment Guarantee for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years must resubmit a qualification application containing the information specified in § 1493.30(a) to CCC to participate in the GSM-102 program. If at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the Exporter must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided pursuant to paragraph (a) has not changed.
(d)
Ineligibility for program participation.
An applicant may be ineligible to participate in the GSM-102 program if such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required by paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1493.40
Information required for U.S. Financial Institution participation.
U.S. Financial Institutions must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the GSM-102 Program.
(a)
Qualification requirements.
To qualify for participation in the GSM-102 Program, a U.S. Financial Institution must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:
(1) Legal name and address of the applicant;
(2) Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number;
(3) Employer Identification Number (EIN—also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number);
(4) Year-end audited financial statements for the applicant's most recent fiscal year;
(5) Breakdown of the applicant's ownership as follows:
(i) Ten largest individual shareholders and ownership percentages;
(ii) Percentage of government ownership, if any; and
(iii) Identity of the legal entity or person with ultimate control or decision making authority, if other than the majority shareholder.
(6) Organizational structure (independent, or a subsidiary, Affiliate, or branch of another financial institution);
(7) Documentation from the applicable United States Federal or State
agency demonstrating that the applicant is either licensed or chartered to do business in the United States;
(8) Name of the agency that regulates the applicant and the name and telephone number of the primary contact for such regulator; and
(9) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.60 are hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.60. The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.
(b)
Qualification notification.
CCC will notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.
(c)
Previous qualification.
Any U.S. Financial Institution not participating in the GSM-102 program for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years must resubmit a qualification application containing the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section to CCC to participate in the GSM-102 program. If at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the U.S. Financial Institution must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided pursuant to paragraph (a) has not changed.
(d)
Ineligibility for program participation.
A U.S. Financial Institution may be deemed ineligible to participate in the GSM-102 Program if such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required by paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1493.50
Information required for Foreign Financial Institution participation.
Foreign Financial Institutions must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the GSM-102 Program.
(a)
Qualification requirements.
To qualify for participation in the GSM-102 program, a Foreign Financial Institution must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:
(1) Legal name and address of the applicant;
(2) Year end, audited financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards established by the applicant's regulators, in English, for the applicant's three most recent fiscal years. If the applicant is not subject to a banking or other financial regulatory authority, year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in English, for the applicant's three most recent fiscal years;
(3) Breakdown of applicant's ownership as follows:
(i) Ten largest individual shareholders and ownership percentages;
(ii) Percentage of government ownership, if any; and
(iii) Identity of the legal entity or person with ultimate control or decision making authority, if other than the majority shareholder.
(4) Organizational structure (independent, or a subsidiary, Affiliate, or branch of another legal entity);
(5) Name of foreign government agency that regulates the applicant; and
(6) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.60 are hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.60. The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.
(b)
Qualification notification.
CCC will notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.
(c)
Participation limit.
If, after review of the information submitted and other publicly available information, CCC determines that the Foreign Financial Institution is eligible for participation, CCC will establish a dollar participation limit for the institution. This limit will be the maximum amount of exposure CCC agrees to undertake with respect to this Foreign Financial Institution at any point in time. CCC may change or cancel this dollar participation limit at any time based on any information submitted or any publicly available information.
(d)
Previous qualification and submission of annual financial statements.
Each qualified Foreign Financial Institution shall submit annually to CCC the certifications in § 1493.60 and its audited fiscal year-end financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards established by the applicant's regulators, in English, so that CCC may determine the continued ability of the Foreign Financial Institution to adequately service CCC guaranteed debt. If the Foreign Financial Institution is not subject to a banking or other financial regulatory authority, it should submit year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in English, for the applicant's most recent fiscal year. Failure to submit this information annually may cause CCC to decrease or cancel the Foreign Financial Institution's dollar participation limit. Any Foreign Financial Institution not participating in the GSM-102 program for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years may have its dollar participation limit cancelled. If this participation limit is cancelled, the Foreign Financial Institution must resubmit the information and certifications requested in paragraph (a) of this section to CCC when reapplying for participation. Additionally, if at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the Foreign Financial Institution must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided under paragraph (a) has not changed.
(e)
Ineligibility for program participation.
A Foreign Financial Institution may be deemed ineligible to participate in the GSM-102 program if:
(1) Such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Based upon information submitted by the applicant or other publicly available sources, CCC determines that the applicant cannot adequately service the debt associated with the Payment Guarantees issued by CCC.
§ 1493.60
Certifications required for program participation.
(a) When making the statement required by §§ 1493.30(a)(7), 1493.40(a)(9), or 1493.50(a)(6), each Exporter, U.S. Financial Institution and Foreign Financial Institution applicant for program participation is certifying that, to the best of its knowledge and belief:
(1) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or excluded from covered transactions by any U.S. Federal department or agency;
(2) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) have not within a three-year period preceding this application been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statues or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;
(3) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(4) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) have not within a three-year period preceding this application had one or more public transactions (Federal, State or local) terminated for cause or default;
(5) The applicant does not have any outstanding nontax debt to the United States that is in delinquent status as provided in 31 CFR 285.13;
(6) The applicant is not controlled by a person owing an outstanding nontax debt to the United States that is in delinquent status as provided in 31 CFR 285.13 (e.g., a corporation is not controlled by an officer, director, or shareholder who owes a debt); and
(7) The applicant does not control a person owing an outstanding nontax debt to the United States that is in delinquent status as provided in 31 CFR 285.13 (e.g., a corporation does not control a wholly-owned or partially-owned subsidiary which owes a debt).
(b)
Additional certifications for U.S. and Foreign Financial Institution applicants.
When making the statement required by § 1493.40(a)(9) or § 1493.50(a)(6), each U.S. and Foreign Financial Institution applicant for program participation is certifying that, to the best of its knowledge and belief:
(1) The applicant and its Principals are in compliance with all requirements, restrictions and guidelines as established by the applicant's regulators; and
(2) All U.S. operations of the applicant and its U.S. Principals are in compliance with U.S. anti-money laundering and terrorist financing statutes including, but not limited to, the USA Patriot Act of 2001, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.
[79 FR 68596, Nov. 18, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 28186, June 18, 2019]
§ 1493.70
Application for Payment Guarantee.
(a) A Firm Export Sales Contract for an Eligible Export Sale must exist before an Exporter may submit an application for a Payment Guarantee. Upon request by CCC, the Exporter must provide evidence of a Firm Export Sales Contract. An application for a Payment Guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. An application must identify the name and address of the Exporter and include the following information:
(1) Name of the destination country or region. If the destination is a region, indicate the country or countries within the region to which the U.S. Agricultural Commodity will be exported.
(2) Name and address of the Importer. If the Importer is not physically located in the country or region of destination, it must have an Importer's Representative in the country or region of destination. If applicable, provide the name and address of the Importer's Representative.
(3) A statement that the U.S. Agricultural Commodity will be shipped to the destination country or region.
(4) Name and address of the party on whose request the Letter of Credit is issued, if other than the Importer.
(5) Name and address of the Intervening Purchaser, if any.
(6) Date of Sale.
(7) Exporter's sale number.
(8) Delivery period as agreed between the Exporter and the Importer.
(9) A full description of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity (including packaging, if any). The description must include the applicable six-digit Harmonized System commodity classification code. The commodity grade and quality specified in the Exporter's application for the Payment Guarantee must correspond with the commodity grade and quality specified in the Firm Export Sales Contract and the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit.
(10) Mean quantity, contract loading tolerance and, if necessary, a request for CCC to reserve coverage up to the maximum quantity permitted.
(11) Unit sales price of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity, or a mechanism to establish the price, as agreed between the Exporter and the Importer. If the commodity was sold on the basis of CFR or CIF, the actual (if known at the time of application) or estimated value of freight and, in the case of sales made on a CIF basis, the actual (if known at the time of application) or estimated value of marine and war risk insurance, must be specified.
(12) Description and value of Discounts and Allowances, if any.
(13) Port Value (includes upward loading tolerance, if any).
(14) Guaranteed Value.
(15) Guarantee fee, either as announced on the Web site per § 1493.110(a)(1), or the competitive fee bid per § 1493.110(a)(2), depending on the
type of fee charged by CCC for the country or region.
(16) Name and location of the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Letter of Credit and, upon request by CCC, written evidence that the Foreign Financial Institution has agreed to issue the Letter of Credit.
(17) The term length for the credit being extended and the intervals between principal payments for each shipment to be made under the export sale.
(18) The Exporter's statement, “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.80 are hereby being made by the Exporter in this application.” which, when included in the application by the Exporter, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.80.
(b) An application for a Payment Guarantee may be approved as submitted, approved with modifications agreed to by the Exporter, or rejected by the Director. In the event that the application is approved, the Director will cause a Payment Guarantee to be issued in favor of the Exporter. Such Payment Guarantee will become effective at the time specified in § 1493.100(b). If, based upon a price review, the unit sales price of the commodity does not fall within the prevailing commercial market level ranges, as determined by CCC, the application will not be approved.
§ 1493.80
Certification requirements for obtaining Payment Guarantee.
By providing the statement in § 1493.70(a)(18), the Exporter is certifying that the information provided in the application is true and correct and, further, that all requirements set forth in this section have been met. The Exporter will be required to provide further explanation or documentation with regard to applications that do not include this statement. If the Exporter makes false certifications with respect to a Payment Guarantee, CCC will have the right, in addition to any other rights provided under this subpart or otherwise as a matter of law, to revoke guarantee coverage for any commodities not yet exported and/or to commence legal action and/or administrative proceedings against the Exporter. The Exporter, in submitting an application for a Payment Guarantee and providing the statement set forth in § 1493.70(a)(18), certifies that:
(a) The commodity or product covered by the Payment Guarantee is a U.S. Agricultural Commodity;
(b) There have not been any corrupt payments or extra sales services or other items extraneous to the transaction provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the transaction, and the transaction complies with applicable United States law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other anti-bribery measures;
(c) If the U.S. Agricultural Commodity is vegetable oil or a vegetable oil product, that none of the agricultural commodity or product has been or will be used as a basis for a claim of a refund, as drawback, pursuant to section 313 of the Tariff Act of 1930, 19 U.S.C. 1313, of any duty, tax or fee imposed under Federal law on an imported commodity or product;
(d) At the time of submission of the application for Payment Guarantee, neither the Importer nor the Intervening Purchaser, if applicable, is present as an excluded party on the SAM list;
(e) The Exporter is fully in compliance with the requirements of § 1493.130(b) for all existing Payment Guarantees issued to the Exporter or has requested and been granted an extension per § 1493.130(b)(3); and
(f) The information provided pursuant to § 1493.30 has not changed and the Exporter still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.30.
§ 1493.90
Special requirements of the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit and the Terms and Conditions Document, if applicable.
(a)
Permitted mechanisms to document special requirements.
(1) A Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit is required in connection with the export sale to which CCC's Payment Guarantee pertains.
(i) The Letter of Credit must stipulate presentation of at least one original clean on board bill of lading as a required document, unless:
(A) The Exporter, or a related company previously reported to CCC by the Exporter pursuant to § 1493.30(a)(5), is named as the shipper on the clean on board bill of lading. If the Exporter or a related company is named the shipper on the bill of lading, the Letter of Credit may stipulate a copy or photocopy of an original clean on board bill of lading; or
(B) The Letter of Credit stipulates presentation of electronic documents per paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If the Letter of Credit will allow for presentation of electronic documents, the Letter of Credit must so stipulate.
(2) The use of a Terms and Conditions Document is optional. The Terms and Conditions Document, if any, must be specifically identified and referred to in the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit.
(3) The special requirements in paragraph (b) of this section must be documented in one of the two following ways:
(i) The special requirements may be set forth in the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit as a special instruction from the Foreign Financial Institution; or
(ii) The special requirements may be set forth in a separate Terms and Conditions Document.
(b)
Special requirements.
The following provisions are required and must be documented in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The terms of the Repayment Obligation, including a specific promise by the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Letter of Credit to pay the Repayment Obligation;
(2) The following language: “In the event that the Commodity Credit Corporation (“CCC”) is subrogated to the position of the obligee hereunder, this instrument shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, excluding its conflict of laws principles. In such case, any legal action or proceeding arising under this instrument will be brought exclusively in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York or the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, as determined by CCC, and such parties hereby irrevocably consent to the personal jurisdiction and venue therein.”;
(3) A provision permitting the Holder of the Payment Guarantee to declare all or any part of the Repayment Obligation, including accrued interest, immediately due and payable, in the event a payment default occurs under the Letter of Credit or, if applicable, the Terms and Conditions Document; and
(4) Post Default Interest terms.
§ 1493.100
Terms and requirements of the Payment Guarantee.
(a)
CCC's obligation.
The Payment Guarantee will provide that CCC agrees to pay the Holder of the Payment Guarantee an amount not to exceed the Guaranteed Value, plus Eligible Interest, in the event that the Foreign Financial Institution fails to pay under the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit and, if applicable, the Terms and Conditions Document. Payment by CCC will be in U.S. dollars.
(b)
Period of guarantee coverage.
(1) The Holder of the Payment Guarantee may, with respect to a series of shipments made within a 30 calendar day period, elect to have the Payment Guarantee coverage being on the Weighted Average Export Date for such shipments. The first allowable 30 calendar day period for bundling of shipments to compute the Weighted Average Export Date for such shipments begins on the first Date of Export for transactions covered by the Payment Guarantee. Shipments within each subsequent 30 calendar day period may be bundled with other shipments made within the same 30 calendar period to determine the Weighted Average Export Date for such shipments.
(2)(i) The period of coverage under the Payment Guarantee begins on the earlier of the following dates and will continue during the credit term specified on the Payment Guarantee or any amendments thereto:
(A) The Date(s) of Export or the Weighted Average Export Date(s), as selected by the Holder of the Payment Guarantee consistent with paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or
(B) The date when Ordinary Interest begins to accrue, or the weighted average date when interest begins to accrue.
(ii) However, the Payment Guarantee becomes effective on the Date(s) of Export of the U.S. Agricultural Commodities specified in the Exporter's application for the Payment Guarantee.
(c)
Terms of the CCC Payment Guarantee.
The terms of CCC's coverage will be set forth in the Payment Guarantee, as approved by CCC, and will include the provisions of this subpart, which may be supplemented by any Program Announcements and notices to participants in effect at the time the Payment Guarantee is approved by CCC.
(d)
Final date to export.
The final date to export shown on the Payment Guarantee will be one month, as determined by CCC, after the contractual deadline for shipping.
(e)
Reserve coverage for loading tolerances.
The Exporter may apply for a Payment Guarantee and, if coverage is available, pay the guarantee fee, based on the mean of the lower and upper loading tolerances of the Firm Export Sales Contract; however, the Exporter may also request that CCC reserve additional guarantee coverage to accommodate up to the amount of the upward loading tolerance specified in the Firm Export Sales Contract. The amount of coverage that can be reserved to accommodate the upward loading tolerance is limited to ten (10) percent of the Port Value of the sale. If such additional guarantee coverage is available at the time of application and the Director determines to make such reservation, CCC will so indicate to the Exporter. In the event that the Exporter ships a quantity greater than the amount on which the guarantee fee was paid (i.e., the mean of the upper and lower loading tolerances), it may obtain the additional coverage from CCC, up to the amount of the upward loading tolerance, by filing for an application for amendment to the Payment Guarantee, and by paying the additional amount of fee applicable. If such application for an amendment to the Payment Guarantee is not filed with CCC by the Exporter and the additional fee not received by CCC within 30 calendar days after the date of the last export against the Payment Guarantee, CCC may cancel the reserve coverage originally set aside for the Exporter.
(f)
Certain export sales are ineligible for GSM-102 Payment Guarantees.
(1) An export sale (or any portion thereof) is ineligible for Payment Guarantee coverage if at any time CCC determines that:
(1) The commodity is not a U.S. Agricultural Commodity;
(2) The export sale includes corrupt payments or extra sales or services or other items extraneous to the transactions provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the export sale;
(3) The export sale does not comply with applicable U.S. law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other anti-bribery measures;
(4) If the U.S. Agricultural Commodity is vegetable oil or a vegetable oil product, any of the agricultural commodity or product has been or will be used as a basis for a claim of a refund, as drawback, pursuant to section 313 of the Tariff Act of 1930, 19 U.S.C. 1313, of any duty, tax or fee imposed under Federal law on an imported commodity or product;
(5) Either the Importer or the Intervening Purchaser, if any, is excluded or disqualified from participation in U.S. government programs; or
(6) The sale is not an Eligible Export Sale.
(g)
Certain exports of U.S. Agricultural Commodities are ineligible for Payment Guarantee coverage.
The following exports are ineligible for coverage under a GSM-102 Payment Guarantee except where it is determined by the Director to be in the best interest of CCC to provide guarantee coverage on such exports:
(1) Exports of U.S. Agricultural Commodities with a Date of Export prior to the date of receipt by CCC of the Exporter's written application for a Payment Guarantee;
(2) Exports of U.S. Agricultural Commodities with a Date of Export later than the final date to export shown on the Payment Guarantee or any amendments thereof;
(3) Exports of U.S. Agricultural Commodities where the date of issuance of
a Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit is later than 30 calendar days after:
(i) The Date of Export, or
(ii) The Weighted Average Export Date, if the Holder of the Payment Guarantee has elected to have the Payment Guarantee coverage begin on the Weighted Average Export Date; or
(4) Exports of U.S. Agricultural Commodities that have been guaranteed by CCC under another Payment Guarantee. If CCC determines that an export of U.S. Agricultural Commodities has been guaranteed under multiple Payment Guarantees (or coverage has been requested under multiple Payment Guarantees), CCC will determine which Payment Guarantee (or application for Payment Guarantee), if any, corresponds to an Eligible Export Sale.
(h)
Additional requirements.
The Payment Guarantee may contain such additional terms, conditions, and limitations as deemed necessary or desirable by the Director. Such additional terms, conditions or qualifications as stated in the Payment Guarantee are binding on the Exporter and the Assignee.
(i)
Amendments.
A request for an amendment of a Payment Guarantee may be submitted only by the Exporter, with the written concurrence of the Assignee, if any. The Director will consider such a request only if the amendment sought is consistent with this subpart and any applicable Program Announcements and sufficient budget authority exists. Any amendment to the Payment Guarantee, particularly those that result in an increase in CCC's liability under the Payment Guarantee, may result in an increase in the guarantee fee. CCC reserves the right to request additional information from the Exporter to justify the request and to charge a fee for amendments. Such fees will be announced and available on the USDA Web site. Any request to amend the Foreign Financial Institution on the Payment Guarantee will require that the Holder of the Payment Guarantee resubmit to CCC the certifications in § 1493.120(c)(1)(i) or § 1493.140(d).
§ 1493.110
Guarantee fees.
(a)
Guarantee fee rates.
Payment Guarantee fee rates charged may be one of the following two types:
(1) Those that are announced on the USDA Web site and are based upon the length of the payment terms provided for in the Firm Export Sales Contract, the degree of risk that CCC assumes, as determined by CCC, and any other factors which CCC determines appropriate for consideration.
(2) Those where Exporters are invited to submit a competitive bid for coverage. If CCC determines to offer coverage on a competitive fee bid basis, instructions for bidding, and minimum fee rates, if applicable, will be made available on the USDA Web site.
(b)
Calculation of fee.
The guarantee fee will be computed by multiplying the Guaranteed Value by the guarantee fee rate.
(c)
Payment of fee.
The Exporter shall remit, with his application, the full amount of the guarantee fee. Applications will not be accepted until the guarantee fee has been received by CCC. The Exporter's wire transfer or check for the guarantee fee shall be made payable to CCC and be submitted in the manner specified on the USDA Web site.
(d)
Refunds of fee.
Guarantee fees paid in connection with applications that are accepted by CCC will ordinarily not be refundable. Once CCC notifies an Exporter of acceptance of an application, the fee for that application will not be refunded unless the Director determines that such refund will be in the best interest of CCC, even if the Exporter withdraws the application prior to CCC's issuance of the Payment Guarantee. If CCC does not accept an application for a Payment Guarantee or accepts only part of the guarantee coverage requested, a full or pro rata refund of the fee will be made.
§ 1493.120
Assignment of the Payment Guarantee.
(a)
Requirements for assignment.
The Exporter may assign the Payment Guarantee only to a U.S. Financial Institution approved for participation by CCC. The assignment must cover all amounts payable under the Payment Guarantee not already paid, may not
be made to more than one party, and may not, unless approved in advance by CCC, be:
(1) Made to one party acting for two or more parties, or
(2) Subject to further assignment.
(b)
CCC to receive notice of assignment of payment guarantee.
A notice of assignment signed by the parties thereto must be filed with CCC by the Assignee in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. The name and address of the Assignee must be included on the written notice of assignment. The notice of assignment should be received by CCC within 30 calendar days of the date of assignment.
(c)
Required certifications.
(1) The U.S. Financial Institution must include the following certification on the notice of assignment: “I certify that:
(i) [Name of Assignee] has verified that the Foreign Financial Institution, at the time of submission of the notice of assignment, is not present as an excluded party on the SAM list; and
(ii) To the best of my knowledge and belief, the information provided pursuant to § 1493.40 has not changed and [name of Assignee] still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.40.”
(2) If the Assignee makes a false certification with respect to a Payment Guarantee, CCC may, in its sole discretion, in addition to any other action available as a matter of law, rescind and cancel the Payment Guarantee, reject the assignment of the Payment Guarantee, and/or commence legal action and/or administrative proceedings against the Assignee.
(d)
Notice of eligibility to receive assignment.
In cases where a U.S. Financial Institution is determined to be ineligible to receive an assignment, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, CCC will provide notice thereof to the U.S. Financial Institution and to the Exporter issued the Payment Guarantee.
(e)
Ineligibility of U.S. Financial Institutions to receive an assignment and proceeds.
A U.S. Financial Institution will be ineligible to receive an assignment of a Payment Guarantee or the proceeds payable under a Payment Guarantee if such U.S. Financial Institution:
(1) At the time of assignment of a Payment Guarantee, is not in compliance with all requirements of 1493.40(a); or
(2) Is the branch, agency, or subsidiary of the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Letter of Credit; or
(3) Is owned or controlled by an entity that owns or controls the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Letter of Credit; or
(4) Is the U.S. parent of the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit; or
(5) Is owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country and the Payment Guarantee has been issued in connection with export sales of U.S. Agricultural Commodities to Importers located in such foreign country.
(f)
Repurchase agreements.
(1) The Holder of the Payment Guarantee may enter into a Repurchase Agreement, to which the following requirements apply:
(i) Any repurchase under a Repurchase Agreement by the Holder of the Payment Guarantee must be for the entirety of the outstanding balance under the associated Repayment Obligation;
(ii) In the event of a default with respect to the Repayment Obligation subject to a Repurchase Agreement, the Holder of the Payment Guarantee must immediately effect such repurchase; and
(iii) The Holder of the Payment Guarantee must file all documentation required by §§ 1493.160 and 1493.170 in case of a default by the Foreign Financial Institution under the Payment Guarantee.
(2) The Holder of the Payment Guarantee shall, within five Business Days of execution of a transaction under the Repurchase Agreement, notify CCC of the transaction in writing in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. Such notification must include the following information:
(i) Name and address of the other party to the Repurchase Agreement;
(ii) A statement indicating whether the transaction executed under the Repurchase Agreement is for a fixed term or if it is terminable upon demand by
either party. If fixed, provide the purchase date and the agreed upon date for repurchase. If terminable on demand, provide the purchase date only; and
(iii) The following written certification: “[Name of Holder of the Payment Guarantee] has entered into a Repurchase Agreement that meets the provisions of 7 CFR 1493.120(f)(1) and, prior to entering into this agreement, verified that [name of other party to the Repurchase Agreement] is not present as an excluded party on the SAM list.”
(3) Failure of the Holder of the Payment Guarantee to comply with any of the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section may result in CCC annulling coverage on the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit and Terms and Conditions Document, if applicable, covered by the Payment Guarantee.
§ 1493.130
Evidence of export.
(a)
Report of export.
The Exporter is required to provide CCC an evidence of export report for each shipment made under the Payment Guarantee. This report must include the following information:
(1) Payment Guarantee number;
(2) Evidence of export report number (e.g., Report 1, Report 2) reflecting the report's chronological order of submission under the particular Payment Guarantee;
(3) Date of Export;
(4) Destination country or region. If the sale was registered under a regional program, the Exporter must indicate the specific country or countries within the region to which the goods were shipped;
(5) Exporter's sale number;
(6) Exported Value;
(7) Quantity;
(8) A full description of the commodity exported, including the applicable six-digit Harmonized System commodity classification code;
(9) Unit sales price received for the commodity exported and the Incoterms 2010 basis (e.g., FOB, CFR, CIF). Where the unit sales price at export differs from the unit sales price indicated in the Exporter's application for a Payment Guarantee, the Exporter is also required to submit a statement explaining the reason for the difference;
(10) Description and value of Discounts and Allowances, if any;
(11) The Exporter's statement, “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.140 are hereby being made by the Exporter in this Evidence of Export.” which, when included in the evidence of export by the Exporter, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.140; and
(12) In addition to all of the above information, the final evidence of export report for the Payment Guarantee must include the following:
(i) The statement “Exports under the Payment Guarantee have been completed.”
(ii) A statement summarizing the total quantity and value of the commodity exported under the Payment Guarantee (i.e., the cumulative totals on all numbered evidence of export reports).
(b)
Time limit for submission of evidence of export.
(1) The Exporter must provide a written report to the CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site within 30 calendar days of the Date of Export.
(2) If at any time the Exporter determines that no shipments are to be made under a Payment Guarantee, the Exporter is required to notify CCC in writing no later than the final date to export specified on the Payment Guarantee by furnishing the Payment Guarantee number and stating “no exports will be made under the Payment Guarantee.”
(3) Requests for an extension of the time limit for submitting an evidence of export report must be submitted in writing by the Exporter to the Director and must include an explanation of why the extension is needed. An extension of the time limit may be granted if such extension is requested prior to the expiration of the time limit for filing and is determined by the Director to be in the best interests of CCC.
(c)
Failure to comply with time limits for submission.
CCC will not accept any new applications for Payment Guarantees from an Exporter under § 1493.70
until the Exporter is fully in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for all existing Payment Guarantees issued to the Exporter or has requested and been granted an extension per paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(d)
Export sales reporting.
Exporters have a mandatory reporting responsibility under Section 602 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5712), for exports of certain agricultural commodities and products thereof.
§ 1493.140
Certification requirements for the evidence of export.
By providing the statement contained in § 1493.130(a)(11), the Exporter is certifying that the information provided in the evidence of export report is true and correct and, further, that all requirements set forth in this section have been met. The Exporter will be required to provide further explanation or documentation with regard to reports that do not include this statement. If the Exporter makes false certifications with respect to a Payment Guarantee, CCC will have the right, in addition to any other rights provided under this subpart or otherwise as a matter of law, to annul guarantee coverage for any commodities not yet exported and/or to commence legal action and/or administrative proceedings against the Exporter. The Exporter, in submitting the evidence of export and providing the statement set forth in § 1493.130(a)(11), certifies that:
(a) The agricultural commodity or product exported under the Payment Guarantee is a U.S. Agricultural Commodity;
(b) The U.S. Agricultural Commodity was shipped directly to the country or region specified on the Payment Guarantee;
(c) There have not been any corrupt payments or extra sales services or other items extraneous to the transaction provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the export sale, and that the export sale complies with applicable United States law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other anti-bribery measures;
(d) If the Exporter has not assigned the Payment Guarantee to a U.S. Financial Institution, the Exporter has verified that the Foreign Financial Institution, at the time of submission of the evidence of export report, is not present as an excluded party on the SAM list;
(e) The transaction is an Eligible Export Sale; and
(f) The information provided pursuant to §§ 1493.30 and 1493.70 has not changed (except as agreed to and amended by CCC) and the Exporter still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.30.
§ 1493.150
Proof of entry.
(a)
Diversion.
The diversion of U.S. Agricultural Commodities covered by a Payment Guarantee to a country or region other than that shown on the Payment Guarantee is prohibited, unless expressly authorized in writing by the Director.
(b)
Records of proof of entry.
(1) Exporters must obtain and maintain records of an official or customary commercial nature that demonstrate the arrival of the U.S. Agricultural Commodities exported in connection with the GSM-102 program in the country or region that was the intended country or region of destination of such commodities. At the Director's request, the Exporter must submit to CCC records demonstrating proof of entry. Records demonstrating proof of entry must be in English or be accompanied by a certified or other translation acceptable to CCC. Records acceptable to meet this requirement include an original certification of entry signed by a duly authorized customs or port official of the importing country, by an agent or representative of the vessel or shipline that delivered the U.S. Agricultural Commodity to the importing country, or by a private surveyor in the importing country, or other documentation deemed acceptable by the Director showing:
(i) That the U.S. Agricultural Commodity entered the importing country or region;
(ii) The identification of the export carrier;
(iii) The quantity of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity;
(iv) The kind, type, grade and/or class of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity; and
(v) The date(s) and place(s) of unloading of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity in the importing country or region.
(2) Where shipping documents (e.g., bills of lading) clearly demonstrate that the U.S. Agricultural Commodities were shipped to the destination country or region, proof of entry verification may be provided by the Importer.
§ 1493.160
Notice of default.
(a)
Notice of default.
If the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Letter of Credit fails to make payment pursuant to the terms of the Letter of Credit or the Terms and Conditions Document, the Holder of the Payment Guarantee must submit a notice of default to CCC as soon as possible, but not later than 5 Business Days after the date that payment was due from the Foreign Financial Institution (the due date). A notice of default must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site and must include the following information:
(1) Payment Guarantee number;
(2) Name of the country or region as shown on the Payment Guarantee;
(3) Name of the defaulting Foreign Financial Institution;
(4) Payment due date;
(5) Total amount of the defaulted payment due, indicating separately the amounts for principal and Ordinary Interest, and including a copy of the repayment schedule with due dates, principal amounts and Ordinary Interest rates for each installment;
(6) Date of the Foreign Financial Institution's refusal to pay, if applicable;
(7) Reason for the Foreign Financial Institution's refusal to pay, if known, and copies of any correspondence with the Foreign Financial Institution regarding the default.
(b)
Failure to comply with time limit for submission.
If the Holder of the Payment Guarantee fails to notify CCC of a default within 5 Business Days, CCC may deny the claim for that default.
(c)
Impact of a default on other existing Payment Guarantees.
(1) In the event that a Foreign Financial Institution defaults under a Repayment Obligation, CCC may declare that such Foreign Financial Institution is no longer eligible to provide additional Letters of Credit under the GSM-102 Program. If CCC determines that such defaulting Foreign Financial Institution is no longer eligible for the GSM-102 Program, CCC shall provide written notice of such ineligibility to all Exporters and Assignees, if any, having Payment Guarantees covering transactions with respect to which the defaulting Foreign Financial Institution is expected to issue a Letter of Credit. Receipt of written notice from CCC that a defaulting Foreign Financial Institution is no longer eligible to provide additional Letters of Credit under the GSM-102 Program shall constitute withdrawal of coverage of that Foreign Financial Institution under all Payment Guarantees with respect to any Letter of Credit issued on or after the date of receipt of such written notice. CCC will not withdraw coverage of the defaulting Foreign Financial Institution under any Payment Guarantee with respect to any Letter of Credit issued before the date of receipt of such written notice.
(2) If CCC withdraws coverage of the defaulting Foreign Financial Institution, CCC will permit the Exporter (with concurrence of the Assignee, if any) to utilize another approved Foreign Financial Institution, and will consider other requested amendments to the Payment Guarantee, for the balance of the export sale covered by the Payment Guarantee. If no alternate Foreign Financial Institution is identified to issue the Letter of Credit within 30 calendar days, CCC will cancel the Payment Guarantee and refund the Exporter's guarantee fees corresponding to any unutilized portion of the Payment Guarantee.
§ 1493.170
Claims for default.
(a)
Filing a claim.
A claim by the Holder of the Payment Guarantee for a defaulted payment will not be paid if it is made later than 180 calendar days from the due date of the defaulted payment. A claim must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. The claim must
include the following documents and information:
(1) An original cover document signed by the Holder of the Payment Guarantee and containing the following information:
(i) Payment Guarantee number;
(ii) A description of:
(A) Any payments from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the defaulted payment that were received by the Exporter or the Assignee prior to submission of the claim; and
(B) Any security, insurance, or collateral arrangements, whether or not any payment has been realized from such security, insurance, or collateral arrangement as of the time of claim, from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the defaulted payment.
(iii) The following certifications:
(A) A certification that the scheduled payment has not been received, listing separately scheduled principal and Ordinary Interest;
(B) A certification of the amount of the defaulted payment, indicating separately the amounts for defaulted principal and Ordinary Interest;
(C) A certification that all documents submitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section are true and correct copies; and
(D) A certification that all documents conforming with the requirements for payment under the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit have been submitted to the negotiating bank or directly to the Foreign Financial Institution under such Letter of Credit.
(2) An original instrument, in form and substance satisfactory to CCC, subrogating to CCC the respective rights of the Holder of the Payment Guarantee to the amount of payment in default under the applicable export sale. The instrument must reference the applicable Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit and, if applicable, the Terms and Conditions Document; and
(3) A copy of each of the following documents:
(i) The repayment schedule with due dates, principal amounts and Ordinary Interest rates for each installment (if the Ordinary Interest rates for future payments are unknown at the time the claim for default is submitted, provide estimates of such rates);
(ii)(A) The Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit securing the export sale; and
(B) If applicable, the Terms and Conditions Document;
(iii) Depending upon the method of shipment, the ocean carrier or intermodal bill(s) of lading signed by the shipping company with the onboard ocean carrier date for each shipment, the airway bill, or, if shipped by rail or truck, the bill of lading and the entry certificate or similar document signed by an official of the importing country. If the transaction utilizes electronic bill(s) of lading (e-BL), a print-out of the e-BL from electronic system with an electronic signature is acceptable;
(iv)(A) The Exporter's invoice showing, as applicable, the FAS, FCA, FOB, CFR or CIF values; or
(B) If there was an Intervening Purchaser, both the Exporter's invoice to the Intervening Purchaser and the Intervening Purchaser's invoice to the Importer;
(v) The evidence of export report(s) previously submitted by the Exporter to CCC in conformity with the requirements of § 1493.130(a); and
(vi) If the defaulted payment was part of a transaction executed under a Repurchase Agreement, written evidence that the repurchase occurred as required under § 1493.120(f)(1)(ii).
(b)
Additional documents.
If a claim is denied by CCC, the Holder of the Payment Guarantee may provide further documentation to CCC to establish that the claim is in good order.
(c)
Subsequent claims for defaults on installments.
If the initial claim is found in good order, the Holder of the Payment Guarantee need only provide all of the required claims documents with the initial claim relating to a covered transaction. For subsequent claims relating to failure of the Foreign Financial Institution to make scheduled installments on the same export shipment, the Holder of the Payment Guarantee need only submit to CCC a notice of such failure containing the information stated in paragraph (a)(1)(i) and (ii) and (a)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section; an instrument of subrogation as
per paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and the date the original claim was filed with CCC.
(d)
Alternative satisfaction of Payment Guarantees.
CCC may establish procedures, terms and/or conditions for the satisfaction of CCC's obligations under a Payment Guarantee other than those provided for in this subpart if CCC determines that those alternative procedures, terms, and/or conditions are appropriate in rescheduling the debts arising out of any transaction covered by the Payment Guarantee and would not result in CCC paying more than the amount of CCC's obligation.
§ 1493.180
Payment for default.
(a)
Determination of CCC's liability.
Upon receipt in good order of the information and documents required under § 1493.170, CCC will determine whether or not a default has occurred for which CCC is liable under the applicable Payment Guarantee. Such determination shall include, but not be limited to, CCC's determination that all documentation conforms to the specific requirements contained in this subpart, and that all documents submitted for payment conform to the requirements of the Letter of Credit and, if applicable, the Terms and Conditions Document. If CCC determines that it is liable to the Holder of the Payment Guarantee, CCC will pay the Holder of the Payment Guarantee in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Amount of CCC's liability.
CCC's maximum liability for any claims submitted with respect to any Payment Guarantee, not including any CCC Late Interest payments due in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, will be limited to the lesser of:
(1) The Guaranteed Value as stated in the Payment Guarantee, plus Eligible Interest, less any payments received or funds realized from insurance, security or collateral arrangements prior to claim by the Exporter or the Assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the obligation in default (other than payments between CCC, the Exporter or the Assignee); or
(2) The guaranteed percentage (as indicated in the Payment Guarantee) of the Exported Value indicated in the evidence of export, plus Eligible Interest, less any payments received or funds realized from insurance, security or collateral arrangements prior to claim by the Exporter or the Assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the obligation in default (other than payments between CCC, the Exporter or the Assignee).
(c)
CCC Late Interest.
If CCC does not pay a claim within 15 Business Days of receiving the claim in good order, CCC Late Interest will accrue in favor of the Holder of the Payment Guarantee beginning with the sixteenth Business Day after the day of receipt of a complete and valid claim found by CCC to be in good order and continuing until and including the date that payment is made by CCC. CCC Late Interest will be paid on the guaranteed amount, as determined by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, and will be calculated at a rate equal to the average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction as announced by the Department of Treasury as of the due date. If there has been no 91-day auction within 90 calendar days of the date CCC Late Interest begins to accrue, CCC will apply an alternative rate in a manner to be described on the USDA Web site.
(d)
Accelerated payments.
CCC will pay claims only on amounts not paid as scheduled. CCC will not pay claims for amounts due under an accelerated payment clause in the Firm Export Sales Contract, the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit, the Terms and Conditions Document (if applicable), or any obligation owed by the Foreign Financial Institution to the Holder of the Payment Guarantee that is related to the Letter of Credit issued in favor of the Exporter, unless it is determined to be in the best interests of CCC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CCC at its option may declare up to the entire amount of the unpaid balance, plus accrued Ordinary Interest, in default, require the Holder of the Payment Guarantee to invoke the acceleration provision in the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit or, if applicable, in the Terms and Conditions Document, require submission of all claims documents specified in § 1493.170, and
make payment to the Holder of the Payment Guarantee in addition to such other claimed amount as may be due from CCC.
(e)
Action against the Assignee.
If an Assignee submits a claim for default pursuant to Section 1493.170 and all documents submitted appear on their face to conform with the requirements of such section, CCC will not hold the Assignee responsible or take any action or raise any defense against the Assignee for any action, omission, or statement by the Exporter of which the Assignee has no knowledge.
§ 1493.190
Recovery of defaulted payments.
(a)
Notification.
Upon claim payment to the Holder of the Payment Guarantee, CCC will notify the Foreign Financial Institution of CCC's rights under the subrogation agreement to recover all monies in default.
(b)
Receipt of monies.
(1) In the event that monies related to the obligation in default are recovered by the Exporter or the Assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party, the Importer, or any source whatsoever (excluding payments among CCC, the Exporter, and the Assignee), such monies shall be immediately paid to CCC. Any monies derived from insurance or through the liquidation of any security or collateral after the claim is filed with CCC shall be deemed recoveries that must be paid to CCC. If such monies are not received by CCC within 15 Business Days from the date of recovery by the Exporter or the Assignee, such party will owe to CCC interest from the date of recovery to the date of receipt by CCC. This interest will be calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and will accrue from such date to the date of payment by the Exporter or the Assignee to CCC. Such interest will be charged only on CCC's share of the recovery. If there has been no 91-day auction within 90 calendar days of the date interest begins to accrue, CCC will apply an alternative rate in a manner to be described on the USDA Web site.
(2) If CCC recovers monies that should be applied to a Payment Guarantee for which a claim has been paid by CCC, CCC will pay the Holder of the Payment Guarantee its pro rata share, if any, provided that the required information necessary for determining pro rata distribution has been furnished. If a required payment is not made by CCC within 15 Business Days from the date of recovery or 15 business days from receiving the required information for determining pro rata distribution, whichever is later, CCC will pay interest calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and interest will accrue from such date to the date of payment by CCC. The interest will apply only to the portion of the recovery payable to the Holder of the Payment Guarantee.
(c)
Allocation of recoveries.
Recoveries received by CCC from any source whatsoever that are related to the obligation in default will be allocated by CCC to the Holder of the Payment Guarantee and to CCC on a pro rata basis determined by their respective interests in such recoveries. The respective interest of each party will be determined on a pro rata basis, based on the combined amount of principal and interest in default on the date the claim is paid by CCC. Once CCC has paid a particular claim under a Payment Guarantee, CCC pro-rates any collections it receives and shares these collections proportionately with the Holder of the Payment Guarantee until both CCC and the Holder of the Payment Guarantee have been reimbursed in full.
(d)
Liabilities to CCC.
Notwithstanding any other terms of the Payment Guarantee, under the following circumstances the Exporter or the Assignee will be liable to CCC for any amounts paid by CCC under the Payment Guarantee:
(1) The Exporter will be liable to CCC when and if it is determined by CCC that the Exporter has engaged in fraud, or has been or is in material breach of any contractual obligation, certification or warranty made by the Exporter for the purpose of obtaining the
Payment Guarantee or for fulfilling obligations under the GSM-102 program; and
(2) The Assignee will be liable to CCC when and if it is determined by CCC that the Assignee has engaged in fraud or otherwise violated program requirements.
(e)
Cooperation in recoveries.
Upon payment by CCC of a claim to the Holder of the Payment Guarantee, the Holder of the Payment Guarantee and the Exporter will cooperate with CCC to effect recoveries from the Foreign Financial Institution and/or the Importer. Cooperation may include, but is not limited to, submission of documents to the Foreign Financial Institution (or its representative) to establish a claim; participation in discussions with CCC regarding the appropriate course of action with respect to a default; actions related to accelerated payments as specified in § 1493.180(d); and other actions that do not increase the obligation of the Holder of the Payment Guarantee or the Exporter under the Payment Guarantee.
§ 1493.191
Additional obligations and requirements.
(a)
Maintenance of records, access to premises, and responding to CCC inquiries.
For a period of five years after the date of expiration of the coverage of a Payment Guarantee, the Exporter and the Assignee, if applicable, must maintain and make available all records and respond completely to all inquiries pertaining to sales and deliveries of and extension of credit for U.S. Agricultural Commodities exported in connection with a Payment Guarantee, including those records generated and maintained by agents, Intervening Purchasers, and related companies involved in special arrangements with the Exporter. The Secretary of Agriculture and the Comptroller General of the United States, through their authorized representatives, must be given full and complete access to the premises of the Exporter and the Assignee, as applicable, during regular business hours from the effective date of the Payment Guarantee until the expiration of such five-year period to inspect, examine, audit, and make copies of the Exporter's, Assignee's, agent's, Intervening Purchaser's or related company's books, records and accounts concerning transactions relating to the Payment Guarantee, including, but not limited to, financial records and accounts pertaining to sales, inventory, processing, and administrative and incidental costs, both normal and unforeseen. During such period, the Exporter and the Assignee may be required to make available to the Secretary of Agriculture or the Comptroller General of the United States, through their authorized representatives, records that pertain to transactions conducted outside the program, if, in the opinion of the Director, such records would pertain directly to the review of transactions undertaken by the Exporter in connection with the Payment Guarantee.
(b)
Responsibility of program participants.
It is the responsibility of all Exporters and U.S. and Foreign Financial Institutions to review, and fully acquaint themselves with, all regulations, Program Announcements, and notices to participants relating to the GSM-102 program, as applicable. All Exporters and U.S. and Foreign Financial Institutions participating in the GSM-102 program are hereby on notice that they will be bound by this subpart and any terms contained in the Payment Guarantee and in applicable Program Announcements.
(c)
Submission of documents by Principals.
All required submissions, including certifications, applications, reports, or requests (i.e., requests for amendments) by Exporters, Assignees, or Foreign Financial Institutions under this subpart must be signed by a Principal of the Exporter, Assignee, or Foreign Financial Institution or their authorized designee(s). In cases where the designee is acting on behalf of the Principal, the signature must be accompanied by: Wording indicating the delegation of authority or, in the alternative, by a certified copy of the delegation of authority; and the name and title of the authorized person or officer. Further, the Exporter, Assignee, or Foreign Financial Institution must ensure that all information and reports required under these regulations are timely submitted.
(d)
Misstatements or noncompliance by Exporter may lead to rescission of Payment Guarantee.
CCC may cancel a Payment Guarantee in the event that an Exporter makes a willful misstatement in the certifications in §§ 1493.80(b) and 1493.140(c) or if the Exporter fails to comply with the provisions of § 1493.150 or paragraph (a) of this section. However, notwithstanding the foregoing, CCC will not cancel its Payment Guarantee, if it determines, in its sole discretion, that an Assignee had no knowledge of the Exporter's misstatement or noncompliance at the time of assignment of the Payment Guarantee.
§ 1493.192
Dispute resolution and appeals.
(a)
Dispute resolution.
(1) The Director and the Exporter or the Assignee will attempt to resolve any disputes, including any adverse determinations made by CCC, arising under the GSM-102 program, this subpart, the applicable Program Announcements and notices to participants, or the Payment Guarantee.
(2) The Exporter or the Assignee may seek reconsideration of a determination made by the Director by submitting a letter requesting reconsideration to the Director within 30 calendar days of the date of the determination. For the purposes of this section, the date of a determination will be the date of the letter or other means of notification to the Exporter or the Assignee of the determination. The Exporter or the Assignee may include with the letter requesting reconsideration any additional information that it wishes the Director to consider in reviewing its request. The Director will respond to the request for reconsideration within 30 calendar days of the date on which the request or the final documentary evidence submitted by the Exporter or the Assignee is received by the Director, whichever is later, unless the Director extends the time permitted for response. If the Exporter or the Assignee fails to request reconsideration of a determination by the Director, then the determination of the Director will be deemed final.
(3) If the Exporter or the Assignee requests reconsideration of a determination by the Director pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and the Director upholds the original determination, then the Exporter or the Assignee may appeal the Director's final determination to the GSM in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If the Exporter or the Assignee fails to appeal the Director's final determination within 30 calendar days as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, then the Director's decision becomes the final determination of CCC.
(b)
Appeal procedures.
(1) An Exporter or Assignee that has exhausted the procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section may appeal to the GSM for a determination of the Director. An appeal to the GSM must be made in writing and filed with the office of the GSM no later than 30 calendar days following the date of the final determination by the Director. If the Exporter or Assignee requests an administrative hearing in its appeal letter, it shall be entitled to a hearing before the GSM or the GSM's designee.
(2) If the Exporter or Assignee does not request an administrative hearing, the Exporter or Assignee must indicate in its appeal letter whether or not it will submit any additional written information or documentation for the GSM to consider in acting upon its appeal. This information or documentation must be submitted to the GSM within 30 calendar days of the date of the appeal letter to the GSM. The GSM will make a decision regarding the appeal based upon the information contained in the administrative record. The GSM will issue his or her written decision within 60 calendar days of the latter of the date on which the GSM receives the appeal or the date that final documentary evidence is submitted by the Exporter or Assignee to the GSM.
(3) If the Exporter or the Assignee has requested an administrative hearing, the GSM will set a date and time for the hearing that is mutually convenient for the GSM and the Exporter or Assignee. This date will ordinarily be within 60 calendar days of the date on which the GSM receives the request for a hearing. The hearing will be an informal procedure. The Exporter or Assignee and/or its counsel may
present any relevant testimony or documentary evidence to the GSM. A transcript of the hearing will not ordinarily be prepared unless the Exporter or Assignee bears the costs involved in preparing the transcript, although the GSM may decide to have a transcript prepared at the expense of the Government. The GSM will make a decision regarding the appeal based upon the information contained in the administrative record. The GSM will issue his or her written decision within 60 calendar days of the latter of the date of the hearing or the date of receipt of the transcript, if one is to be prepared.
(4) The decision of the GSM will be the final determination of CCC. The Exporter or Assignee will be entitled to no further administrative appellate rights.
(c)
Failure to comply with determination.
If the Exporter or Assignee has violated the terms of this subpart or the Payment Guarantee by failing to comply with a determination made under this section, and the Exporter or Assignee has exhausted its rights under this section or has failed to exercise such rights, then CCC will have the right to take any measures available to CCC under applicable law.
(d)
Exporter's obligation to perform.
The Exporter will continue to have an obligation to perform pursuant to the provisions of these regulations and the terms of the Payment Guarantee pending the conclusion of all procedures under this section.
§ 1493.195
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
Officials not to benefit.
No member of or delegate to Congress, or Resident Commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of the Payment Guarantee or to any benefit that may arise therefrom, but this provision shall not be construed to extend to the Payment Guarantee if made with a corporation for its general benefit.
(b)
OMB control number assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part (7 CFR part 1493) have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB Control Number 0551-0004.

# Subpart C—CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations

# Source:
81 FR 65515, Sept. 22, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1493.200
General statement.
(a)
Overview.
The FGP of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) was developed to expand U.S. agricultural commodity exports by making available payment guarantees to encourage U.S. private sector financing to establish or improve facilities or provide services or goods in emerging markets to improve handling, marketing, processing, storage, or distribution of imported agricultural commodities and products. Such guarantees will primarily promote the export of U.S. agricultural commodities. CCC will give priority to transactions that encourage privatization of the agricultural sector or that benefit private farms and cooperatives in emerging markets, and for which nongovernmental persons agree to assume a relatively larger share of costs. The payment guarantee issued under FGP is an agreement by CCC to pay the seller, or the U.S. financial institution that may take assignment of the payment guarantee, specified amounts of principal and interest in case of default by the foreign financial institution that issued the letter of credit for the sale covered by the payment guarantee. The program is targeted toward those countries that have sufficient financial strength so that foreign exchange will be available for scheduled payments. In providing this program, CCC seeks to expand and/or maintain market opportunities for U.S. agricultural exporters and producers and assist long-term market development for U.S. agricultural commodities.
(b)
Program administration.
The FGP is administered under the direction of the General Sales Manager and Vice President, CCC, pursuant to this subpart, subpart A of this part, any program announcements issued by CCC, and, as applicable, the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits. From time to time, CCC may issue a notice to participants on the USDA Web site to remind participants of the requirements of the FGP or to clarify the program requirements contained in these regulations in a manner not inconsistent with this subpart and subpart A of this part. Program information, including available program amounts, eligible countries, and approved U.S. and foreign financial institutions, is available on the USDA Web site.
§ 1493.210
Definition of terms.
Terms set forth in this part, on the USDA Web site (including in program announcements and notices to participants), and in any CCC-originated documents pertaining to the FGP will have the following meanings:
Affiliate.
Entities are affiliates of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other, or a third person controls or has the power to control both. Control may include, but is not limited to: Interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among family members; shared facilities and equipment; or common use of employees.
Assignee.
A U.S. financial institution that has obtained the legal right to make a claim and receive the payment of proceeds under the payment guarantee.
Business day.
A day during which employees of the U.S. Department of Agriculture in the Washington, DC metropolitan area are on official duty during normal business hours.
Buyer.
A foreign purchaser that enters into a firm sales contract with a seller for the sale of goods to be shipped to the destination country and/or U.S. services to be provided in the destination country.
Buyer's representative.
An entity having a physical office that is either organized under the laws of or registered to do business in the destination country specified in the payment guarantee and that is authorized to act on the buyer's behalf with respect to the sale described in the firm sales contract.
CCC.
The Commodity Credit Corporation, an agency and instrumentality of the United States within the Department of Agriculture, authorized pursuant to the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714
et seq.
).
CCC late interest.
Interest payable by CCC pursuant to § 1493.370(c).
Contractual event.
A specific deliverable (activity or milestone) measured by objective or quantifiable methods within the firm sales contract which, when met by the seller, results in an obligation to make payment in accordance with the agreed contractual terms without recourse, and triggers the start of coverage under the payment guarantee. Such events may include, but are not limited to, exports of goods, completion of services, or commissioning date of equipment or a facility.
Cost of services.
The price for services as stipulated in the firm sales contract.
Coverage waiver.
A determination by CCC, upon request of the seller, to allow guarantee coverage of non-U.S. goods and/or to waive the U.S. content test in § 1493.290(e).
Date of performance.
The date that a contractual event occurs in accordance with the firm sales contract. The date of performance may be, but is not limited to, an installation date, the date of completion of the service, the commissioning date of equipment or a facility, or the date of export of goods (one of the following dates, depending upon the method of shipment: The on-board date of an ocean bill of lading or the on-board ocean carrier date of an intermodal bill of lading; the on-board date of an airway bill; or, if exported by rail or truck, the date of entry shown on an entry certificate or similar document issued and signed by an official of the government of the importing country).
Date of sale.
The earliest date on which a firm sales contract exists between the seller and the buyer.
Destination country.
The emerging market (location) of the agricultural-related facility that will use the goods and/or services covered by the payment guarantee. If the payment guarantee covers goods not intended for a specific facility, then the country where the goods will be delivered and utilized.
Director.
The Director, Credit Programs Division, Office of Trade Programs, Foreign Agricultural Service, or designee.
Discounts and allowances.
Any consideration provided directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of the seller, to the buyer in connection with a sale of a good or service, above and beyond its value. Discounts and allowances include, but are not limited to, the provision of additional goods, services or benefits; the promise to provide additional goods, services or benefits in the future; financial rebates; the assumption of any financial or contractual obligations; commissions where the buyer requires the seller to employ and compensate a specified agent as a condition of concluding the sale; the whole or partial release of the buyer from any financial or contractual obligations; or settlements made in favor of the buyer for quality or weight.
Eligible export sale.
A transaction in which the obligation of payment for the portion registered under the FGP arises solely and exclusively from a foreign financial institution letter of credit or terms and conditions document issued in connection with a payment guarantee.
Eligible imported components.
Imported components in U.S. goods that are eligible for coverage because either:
(1) The transaction meets the U.S. content test in § 1493.290(e); or
(2) A coverage waiver of the U.S. content test has been requested by the seller and approved by CCC.
Eligible non-U.S. goods.
Goods, including local costs, that are not U.S. goods but for which a coverage waiver has been requested by the seller and approved by CCC.
Eligible interest.
The amount of interest that CCC agrees to pay the holder of the payment guarantee in the event that CCC pays a claim for default of ordinary interest. Eligible interest shall be the lesser of:
(1) The amount calculated using the interest rate agreed by the holder of the payment guarantee and the foreign financial institution; or
(2) The amount calculated using the specified percentage of the Treasury bill investment rate set forth on the face of the payment guarantee.
Emerging market.
Any country that CCC determines:
(1) Is taking steps toward a market-oriented economy through the food, agriculture, or rural business sectors of the economy of the country; and
(2) has the potential to provide a viable and significant market for U.S. agricultural commodities or products.
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA).
A report that identifies the environmental and social risks and impacts of a project/transaction and proposed measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate and/or offset adverse environmental and social impacts. The report must address the items set out in the most recent Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's “Recommendation of the Council on Common Approaches for Officially Supported Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Diligence.”
Firm sales contract.
The written sales contract entered into between the seller and the buyer which sets forth the terms and conditions of an eligible export sale from the seller to the buyer. Written evidence of a sale may be in the form of a signed sales contract, a written offer and acceptance between parties, or other documentary evidence of sale. The firm sales contract between the seller and the buyer may be conditioned upon CCC's approval of the seller's application for a payment guarantee. The written evidence of sale for the purposes of the FGP must, at a minimum, document the following information:
(1) Date of sale;
(2) A complete description of all goods associated with the transaction. For goods to be covered by the payment guarantee, include the brand name and model number, country where the good was manufactured and country from which the good will be exported (if applicable), quantity, value, and Incoterms (if applicable);
(3) A complete description of all services associated with the transaction. For services to be covered by the payment guarantee, include the supplier and cost;
(4) The date of performance of each contractual event; and
(5) Evidence of agreement between buyer and seller.
Foreign financial institution.
A financial institution (including foreign branches of U.S. financial institutions):
(1) Organized and licensed under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States;
(2) Not domiciled in the United States; and
(3) Subject to the banking or other financial regulatory authority of a foreign jurisdiction (except for multilateral and sovereign institutions).
Foreign financial institution letter of credit or letter of credit.
An irrevocable documentary letter of credit, subject to the current revision of the Uniform Customs and Practices (UCP) for Documentary Credits (International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 600, or latest revision), and if electronic documents are to be utilized, the current revision of the Supplement to the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits for Electronic Presentation (eUCP), providing for payment in U.S. dollars against stipulated documents and issued in favor of the seller by a CCC-approved foreign financial institution.
GSM.
The General Sales Manager, Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS), USDA, acting in his or her capacity as Vice President, CCC, or designee.
Guaranteed value.
The maximum amount indicated on the face of the payment guarantee, exclusive of interest, that CCC agrees to pay the holder of the payment guarantee. The guaranteed value is calculated by deducting the initial payment and any discounts and allowances from the net contract value and adding to that result the value of local costs that CCC has approved for coverage. The resulting figure is then multiplied by the guaranteed percentage (up to the maximum percentage allowable for that country).
Holder of the payment guarantee.
The seller or the assignee of the payment guarantee with the legal right to make a claim and receive the payment of proceeds from CCC under the payment guarantee in case of default by the foreign financial institution.
Incoterms.
Trade terms developed by the International Chamber of Commerce in Incoterms 2010 (or latest revision), which define the respective obligations of the buyer and the seller in a sales contract.
Initial payment.
The minimum amount that the buyer is required to pay the seller prior to CCC's approval of the payment guarantee, expressed as a percentage (specified on the USDA Web site) of the net contract value.
Letter of interest.
Information that the seller may provide to CCC prior to applying for a payment guarantee to obtain feedback on the potential eligibility of a transaction. Information to be submitted in a letter of interest is set out on the USDA Web site.
Local costs.
Expenditures for goods in the destination country that are included in the firm sales contract.
Net contract value.
The aggregate value of goods and cost of services (exclusive of local costs) that are eligible for guarantee coverage and for which coverage is requested.
North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).
Standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.
Ordinary interest.
Interest (other than post default interest) charged on the principal amount identified in the foreign financial institution letter of credit or, if applicable, the terms and conditions document.
Payment guarantee.
An agreement under which CCC, in consideration of a fee paid, and in reliance upon the statements and declarations of the seller, subject to the terms set forth in the written guarantee, this subpart, and any applicable program announcements, agrees to pay the holder of the payment guarantee in the event of a default by a foreign financial institution on its repayment obligation under the foreign financial institution letter of credit issued in connection with a guaranteed sale or, if applicable, under the terms and conditions document.
Post default interest.
Interest charged on amounts in default that begins to accrue upon default of payment, as specified in the foreign financial institution letter of credit or, if applicable, in the terms and conditions document.
Preliminary environmental and social screening document or Screening document.
A document in which the seller provides basic information about a transaction to allow CCC to determine whether the transaction may entail potentially adverse environmental and/or social impacts. The screening document is available on the USDA Web site.
Principal.
A principal of a corporation or other legal entity is an individual serving as an officer, director, owner, partner, or other individual with management or supervisory responsibilities for such corporation or legal entity.
Program announcement.
An announcement issued by CCC on the USDA Web site that provides information on policies, procedures, specific country programs and other information relevant to the operation of the FGP.
Repayment obligation.
A contractual commitment by the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit in connection with an eligible export sale to make payment(s) on principal amount(s), plus any ordinary interest and post default interest, in U.S. dollars, to a seller or U.S. financial institution on deferred payment terms consistent with those permitted under CCC's payment guarantee. The repayment obligation must be documented using one of the methods specified in § 1493.280.
Repurchase agreement.
A written agreement under which the holder of the payment guarantee may from time to time enter into transactions in which the holder of the payment guarantee agrees to sell to another party foreign financial institution Letter(s) of Credit and, if applicable, terms and conditions document(s) secured by the payment guarantee, and repurchase the same foreign financial institution Letter(s) of Credit and terms and conditions documents secured by the payment guarantee, on demand or date certain at an agreed upon price.
SAM
(System for Award Management). A Federal Government owned and operated free Web site that contains information on parties excluded from receiving Federal contracts or certain subcontracts and excluded from certain types of Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits.
Seller.
A supplier of goods and/or services that is both qualified in accordance with the provisions of § 1493.220 and the applicant for the payment guarantee.
Service.
Any business activity classified in any of the 13 NAICS services sectors (NAICS chapters 22 and 48-49 through 81). For the shipment of goods, freight and insurance costs to the port of entry that are included in the price of the goods (in accordance with the specified Incoterms) are not considered services under this subpart.
Terms and conditions document.
A document specifically identified and referred to in the foreign financial institution letter of credit which may contain the repayment obligation and the special requirements specified in § 1493.280.
Total FGP transaction value.
The aggregate value of goods and cost of services (including local costs) to be covered by the payment guarantee. It is the net contract value plus eligible local costs, less the initial payment and less any discounts and allowances.
United States or U.S.
Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
U.S. agricultural commodity or U.S. agricultural commodities.
(1) (i) An agricultural commodity or product entirely produced in the United States; or
(ii) A product of an agricultural commodity—
(A) 90 percent or more of the agricultural components of which by weight, excluding packaging and added water, is entirely produced in the United States; and
(B) That the Secretary determines to be a high value agricultural product.
(2) For purposes of this definition, fish entirely produced in the United States include fish harvested by a documented fishing vessel as defined in title 46, United States Code, in waters that are not waters (including the territorial sea) of a foreign country.
U.S. content test.
A determination of the total value of eligible non-U.S. goods and value of imported components as a percentage of the sum of the
net contract value and the value of approved local costs as specified in § 1493.290(e).
USDA.
United States Department of Agriculture.
U.S. financial institution.
A financial institution (including branches of foreign financial institutions):
(1) Organized and licensed under the laws of a jurisdiction within the United States;
(2) Domiciled in the United States; and
(3) Subject to the banking or other financial regulatory authority jurisdiction within the United States.
U.S. goods.
Goods that are assembled, processed or manufactured in, and exported from, the United States, including goods which contain imported raw materials or imported components. Minor or cosmetic procedures (
e.g.,
affixing labels, cleaning, painting, polishing) do not qualify as assembling, processing or manufacturing.
U.S. person.
One of the following:
(1) An individual who is a citizen or legal resident of the United States; or
(2) An entity constituted or organized in the United States, including any corporation, trust partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association with business activities in the United States.
U.S. services.
Services performed by U.S. persons, including those temporarily residing outside the United States. Costs for hotels, meals, transportation, and other similar services incurred in the destination country are not U.S. services.
Value of components (also value of U.S. components, value of imported components).
The price derived for components in goods, determined by:
(1) The price stipulated in the firm sales contract or, if such price is not available;
(2) The declared customs value or, if the customs value is not available; then
(3) The fair market wholesale value in the United States.
Value of goods (also value of U.S. goods, value of non-U.S. goods, or value of Eligible non-U.S. goods).
The price derived for goods, determined by:
(1) The price stipulated in the firm sales contract or, if such price is not available;
(2) The declared customs value or, if the customs value is not available; then
(3) The fair market wholesale value in the United States.
§ 1493.220
Information required for seller participation.
(a)
Qualification requirements.
Sellers must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the FGP. To qualify for participation in the FGP, an applicant must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:
(1) For the applicant:
(i) The name and full U.S. address (including the full 9-digit zip code) of the applicant's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence. A post office box is not an acceptable address. If the applicant has multiple offices, the address included in the information should be that which is pertinent to the FGP sales contemplated by the applicant;
(ii) Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number;
(iii) Employer Identification Number (EIN—also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number);
(iv) Telephone and fax numbers;
(v) Email address (if applicable);
(vi) Business Web site (if applicable);
(vii) Contact name;
(viii) Statement indicating whether the applicant is a U.S. domestic entity or a foreign entity domiciled in the United States; and
(ix) The form of business entity of the applicant, (
e.g.,
sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, etc.) and the U.S. jurisdiction under which such entity is organized and authorized to conduct business. Such jurisdictions are a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories or possessions of the United States. Upon request by CCC, the applicant must provide written evidence that such entity has been organized in a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or a territory or possession of the United States.
(2) For the applicant's headquarters office:
(i) The name and full address of the applicant's headquarters office (a post office box is not an acceptable address); and
(ii) Telephone and fax numbers.
(3) For the applicant's agent for the service of process:
(i) The name and full U.S. address of the applicant's agent's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence;
(ii) Telephone and fax numbers;
(iii) Email address (if applicable); and
(iv) Contact name.
(4) A description of the applicant's business. Applicants must provide the following information:
(i) Nature of the applicant's business (
i.e.,
producer, service provider, trader, consulting firm, etc.);
(ii) Explanation of the applicant's experience/history selling the goods or services to be sold under the FGP, including number of years involved in selling, types of goods or services sold, and destination of sales for the preceding three years;
(iii) Whether or not the applicant is a “small or medium enterprise” (SME) as defined on the USDA Web site.
(5) A listing of any related companies (
e.g.,
affiliates, subsidiaries, or companies otherwise related through common ownership) currently qualified to participate in CCC export programs;
(6) A statement describing the applicant's participation, if any, during the past three years in U.S. Government programs, contracts or agreements; and
(7) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.250(a) are hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.250(a). The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.
(b)
Qualification notification.
CCC will promptly notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.
(c)
Previous qualification.
Any seller that is currently qualified under subpart B of this part, § 1493.30, need only provide the information requested in § 1493.220(a)(4). Once CCC receives that information, CCC will notify the seller that the seller is qualified under this section to submit applications for an FGP payment guarantee, and the other information provided by the seller pursuant to § 1493.30 will be deemed to also have been provided under this section. Any seller not submitting an application for a GSM-102 or FGP payment guarantee for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years must resubmit a qualification application containing the information specified in § 1493.220(a) to CCC to participate in the FGP. If at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the seller must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided under paragraph (a) of this section has not changed.
(d)
Ineligibility for program participation.
An applicant may be ineligible to participate in the FGP if such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required in § 1493.220(a).
§ 1493.230
Information required for U.S. financial institution participation.
(a)
Qualification requirements.
U.S. financial institutions must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the FGP. To qualify for participation in the FGP, a U.S. financial institution must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:
(1) Legal name and address of the applicant;
(2) Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number;
(3) Employer Identification Number (EIN—also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number);
(4) Year-end audited financial statements for the applicant's most recent fiscal year;
(5) Breakdown of the applicant's ownership as follows:
(i) Ten largest individual shareholders and ownership percentages;
(ii) Percentage of government ownership, if any; and
(iii) Identity of the legal entity or person with ultimate control or decision making authority, if other than the majority shareholder.
(6) Organizational structure (independent, or a subsidiary, affiliate, or branch of another financial institution);
(7) Documentation from the applicable United States Federal or State agency demonstrating that the applicant is either licensed or chartered to do business in the United States;
(8) Name of the agency that regulates the applicant and the name and telephone number of the primary contact for such regulator; and
(9) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.250 are hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.250. The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.
(b)
Qualification notification.
CCC will notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.
(c)
Previous qualification.
Any U.S. financial institution that is qualified under subpart B, § 1493.40 is qualified under this section, and the information provided by the U.S. financial institution pursuant to § 1493.40 will be deemed to also have been provided under this section. Any U.S. financial institution participating in neither the GSM-102 nor FGP programs for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years must resubmit the information and certifications specified in paragraph (a) of this section to CCC to participate in the FGP. If at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the U.S. financial institution must promptly notify CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided under paragraph (a) of this section has not changed.
(d)
Ineligibility for program participation.
A U.S. financial institution may be ineligible to participate in the FGP if such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required in § 1493.230(a).
§ 1493.240
Information required for foreign financial institution participation.
(a)
Qualification requirements.
Foreign financial institutions must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the FGP. To qualify for participation in the FGP, a foreign financial institution must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:
(1) Legal name and address of the applicant;
(2) Year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards established by the applicant's regulators, in English, for the applicant's three most recent fiscal years. If the applicant is not subject to a banking or other financial regulatory authority, year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in English, for the applicant's three most recent fiscal years;
(3) Breakdown of applicant's ownership as follows:
(i) Ten largest individual shareholders and ownership percentages;
(ii) Percentage of government ownership, if any; and
(iii) Identity of the legal entity or person with ultimate control or decision making authority, if other than the majority shareholder.
(4) Organizational structure (independent, or a subsidiary, affiliate, or branch of another legal entity);
(5) Name of foreign government agency that regulates the applicant; and
(6) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.250 are
hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.250. The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.
(b)
Qualification notification.
CCC will notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.
(c)
Participation limit.
If, after review of the information submitted and other publicly available information, CCC determines that the foreign financial institution is eligible for participation in the FGP, CCC will establish a dollar participation limit for the institution. This limit will be the maximum amount of exposure CCC agrees to undertake with respect to this foreign financial institution at any point in time. CCC may change or cancel this dollar participation limit at any time based on any information submitted or any publicly available information.
(d)
Previous qualification and submission of annual financial statements.
Each qualified foreign financial institution shall submit annually to CCC the certifications in § 1493.250 and its audited fiscal year-end financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards established by the applicant's regulators, in English, so that CCC may determine the continued ability of the foreign financial institution to adequately service CCC guaranteed debt. If the foreign financial institution is not subject to a banking or other financial regulatory authority, it must submit year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in English, for the applicant's most recent fiscal year. Failure to submit this information annually may cause CCC to decrease or cancel the foreign financial institution's dollar participation limit. Any foreign financial institution participating in neither the FGP nor the GSM-102 Program for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years may have its dollar participation limit cancelled. If this participation limit is cancelled, the foreign financial institution must resubmit the information and certifications requested in paragraph (a) of this section to CCC when reapplying for participation. Additionally, if at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the foreign financial institution must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided under paragraph (a) of this section has not changed.
(e)
Ineligibility for program participation.
A foreign financial institution:
(1) May be deemed ineligible to participate in the FGP if such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required in § 1493.240(a); and
(2) Will be deemed ineligible to participate in the FGP if, based upon information submitted by the applicant or other publicly available sources, CCC determines that the applicant cannot adequately service the debt associated with the payment guarantees issued by CCC.
§ 1493.250
Certifications required for program participation.
(a) When making the statement required by §§ 1493.220(a)(7), 1493.230(a)(9), or 1493.240(a)(6), each seller, U.S. financial institution and foreign financial institution applicant for program participation is certifying that, to the best of its knowledge and belief:
(1) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or excluded from covered transactions by any U.S. Federal department or agency;
(2) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) have not within a three-year period preceding this application been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State,
or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statues or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;
(3) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(4) The applicant and any of its principals (as defined in 2 CFR 180.995) have not within a three-year period preceding this application had one or more public transactions (Federal, State or local) terminated for cause or default;
(5) The applicant does not have any outstanding nontax debt to the United States that is in delinquent status as provided in 31 CFR 285.13;
(6) The applicant is not controlled by a person owing an outstanding nontax debt to the United States that is in delinquent status as provided in 31 CFR 285.13 (
e.g.,
a corporation is not controlled by an officer, director, or shareholder who owes such a debt); and
(7) The applicant does not control a person owing an outstanding nontax debt to the United States that is in delinquent status as provided in 31 CFR 285.13 (
e.g.,
a corporation does not control a wholly-owned or partially-owned subsidiary which owes such a debt).
(b)
Additional certifications for U.S. and foreign financial institution applicants.
When making the statement required by § 1493.230(a)(9) or § 1493.240(a)(6), each U.S. and foreign financial institution applicant for program participation is certifying that, to the best of its knowledge and belief:
(1) The applicant and its principals are in compliance with all requirements, restrictions and guidelines as established by the applicant's regulators; and
(2) All U.S. operations of the applicant and its U.S. principals are in compliance with U.S. anti-money laundering and terrorist financing statutes including, but not limited to, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.
[81 FR 65515, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 28186, June 18, 2019]
§ 1493.260
Application for payment guarantee.
(a)
Letter of interest.
Prior to submitting an initial application for a payment guarantee in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the seller may, solely at the seller's option, submit a letter of interest to CCC describing a transaction for which FGP coverage may be sought. The letter of interest must contain all of the information specified on the USDA Web site and must be accompanied by a completed preliminary environmental and social screening document. A letter of interest fee, which will be specified on the USDA Web site, must accompany the letter of interest. CCC will review the letter of interest and provide preliminary feedback to the seller on whether the transaction may be eligible for coverage under the FGP. However, CCC's determination whether to issue a payment guarantee will be based on the seller's applications submitted pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.
(b)
Initial application for payment guarantee.
A firm sales contract must exist before a seller may submit an initial application for a payment guarantee. An initial application for a payment guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site, and be accompanied by the application fee in accordance with § 1493.300(b). Each initial application for a payment guarantee must also include a completed Preliminary Environmental and Social Screening Document. If the seller previously submitted the screening document with a letter of interest, the seller is required to re-submit it with the initial application only if revisions are needed to the screening document. An initial application must identify the name and address of the seller and include the following information:
(1) Destination country.
(2) The name and address of the buyer. If the buyer is not physically located in the destination country, it must have a buyer's representative in
the destination country taking receipt of the goods and services covered by the payment guarantee. If applicable, provide the name and address of the buyer's representative.
(3) The name and address of the party on whose request the letter of credit is issued, if other than the buyer.
(4) The name and address of the end-user of the goods or services, if other than the buyer.
(5) The seller's sales number pertinent to the application and a copy of the firm sales contract.
(6) A description (including location,
i.e.,
address, city, port, and/or GPS coordinates, if available) of the agriculture-related facility that will use the goods and/or services to be covered by the payment guarantee and an explanation of how the goods and/or services will be used to improve handling, marketing, processing, storage, or distribution of U.S. agricultural commodities. If the payment guarantee covers goods not intended for a specific facility, describe where the goods will be delivered in the destination country.
(7) List of all agricultural commodities or products (inputs) to be handled, marketed, processed, stored, or distributed by the proposed transaction after completion, and an explanation of why and how the facility or goods and/or services will specifically benefit exporters of U.S. agricultural commodities.
(8) Total value of the firm sales contract.
(9) A full description of each good to be covered by the payment guarantee. The goods specified in the seller's application for the payment guarantee must correspond with the description of the goods specified in the firm sales contract and the foreign financial institution letter of credit. The description must include each of the following:
(i) Brand name and model number;
(ii) Applicable 10-digit Harmonized System classification code;
(iii) Description of the good;
(iv) Country where the good was manufactured and from which the good will be exported;
(v) For U.S. goods, the value of imported components used in the U.S. good's manufacture. If requesting guarantee coverage of only the U.S. components in U.S. goods, provide the value of U.S. components;
(vi) For goods that are local costs, the name of the local supplier;
(vii) Quantity;
(viii) Value of the good; and
(ix) Incoterms (if the sale of the goods is based on Incoterms delivery).
(10) A full description of each U.S. service to be covered by the payment guarantee. The U.S. services specified in the seller's application for the payment guarantee must correspond with the description of the U.S. services specified in the firm sales contract and the foreign financial institution letter of credit. The description must include each of the following:
(i) Description of the U.S. service;
(ii) Supplier of the U.S. service;
(iii) Cost of the U.S. service; and
(iv) NAICS classification number.
(11) A description and date of performance (or timeframe of performance if the exact date is unknown) of each contractual event, as specified in the firm sales contract.
(12) Indication of whether a coverage waiver is requested in accordance with § 1493.290(f). If a coverage waiver is requested, the applicant must indicate the nature of the waiver requested per § 1493.290(f)(1) and provide the justification and explanation required by § 1493.290(f)(2).
(13) Name and location of the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit and, upon request by CCC, written evidence that the foreign financial institution has agreed to issue the letter of credit.
(14) The term length of the credit being extended and the intervals between principal payments for each contractual event under the payment guarantee.
(15) If applicable, a description of any arrangements or understandings with other U.S. or foreign government agencies, or with financial institutions or entities, private or public, providing guarantees or financing to the seller or other competing sellers in connection with this sale, whether or not the goods or services are of U.S. origin or would otherwise qualify for a payment guarantee under this subpart. Copies of
any documents relating to such arrangements must be provided.
(16) A statement of how this transaction may encourage privatization of the agricultural sector, or benefit private farms or cooperatives, in the destination country. Include in the statement the share of any private sector ownership in the transaction.
(17) An estimate of how many U.S. persons will be or have been hired because of the firm sales contract and/or how many U.S. persons are required to fulfill the firm sales contract.
(18) FGP tracking number assigned to previously submitted letter of interest, if applicable.
(c)
Review of initial application.
(1) An initial application may receive conditional approval from CCC as submitted, be conditionally approved with modifications agreed to by the seller, or be rejected by CCC. CCC's review will include, but not be limited to, the following criteria:
(i) CCC will only consider an initial application in connection with a transaction that CCC determines will benefit primarily exports of U.S. agricultural commodities.
(ii) If, based upon a price review the unit sales price of any good and/or service(s) does not fall within the prevailing commercial market level ranges, as determined by CCC, the initial application will not be approved as submitted.
(iii) CCC will review the preliminary environmental and social screening document submitted by the seller and, if necessary, request additional information from the seller to determine whether the transaction could have potentially significant adverse environmental and/or social impacts. If CCC determines that a transaction may have such significant adverse impacts, the seller must submit an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) with the final application for the payment guarantee. Alternatively, CCC may reject an initial application for payment guarantee based on the screening document and any additional information provided by the seller.
(2) Once CCC indicates its approval of the initial application to the seller, the seller must submit a final application as specified in paragraph (d) of this section before CCC will make a final determination of whether to issue a payment guarantee.
(d)
Final application for payment guarantee.
Once CCC approves an initial application, CCC must receive the seller's final application for a payment guarantee within the timeframe specified by CCC. This timeframe will be a minimum of 30 calendar days. The final application for payment guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site and be accompanied by the full guarantee fee (less any previous letter of interest or initial application fees paid toward the payment guarantee) and the environmental and social impact assessment, if required by CCC. The final application must identify the name and address of the seller and include the following information:
(1) FGP tracking number assigned by CCC.
(2) Destination country.
(3) The name and address of the buyer.
(4) A description of each good and U.S. service, along with the value of the Good and Cost of the service, for which guarantee coverage is requested, based on CCC's feedback on the seller's initial application. If the seller is seeking guarantee coverage on only the U.S. components used in the assembly of U.S. goods, provide the value of the U.S. Components.
(5) Net contract value.
(6) Amount of the initial payment and evidence that the initial payment has been paid by the buyer to the seller.
(7) Description and value of any discounts and allowances.
(8) Value of approved local costs.
(9) Total FGP transaction value.
(10) Guaranteed value.
(11) Guarantee fee.
(12) The seller's statement, “All certifications set forth in § 1493.270 are hereby being made by the seller in this application” which, when included in the application by the seller, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.270 with respect to both the initial and final applications.
(e)
Public comment.
To provide the public opportunity to review and comment on the potential environmental and social impacts of a transaction, CCC will make available on its Web site a list of pending transactions for which an ESIA is required. Interested parties will have a minimum of 30 business days to request and provide input on an ESIA prior to CCC's final decision. CCC will not disclose any confidential business information associated with a transaction unless such disclosure is authorized by law.
(f)
Reporting.
The seller may be required to submit reports to CCC on a quarterly, biannual, or annual basis to allow CCC to monitor transactions in which there is a potential for negative environmental and/or social impact. Reporting frequency will be based on the extent of the transaction's impact and any mitigation required. CCC and the seller will agree upon any reporting requirements, including the elements of reporting and the frequency, prior to issuance of a payment guarantee.
(g)
Approval of final application.
A final application for a payment guarantee may be approved as submitted, approved with modifications agreed to by the seller, or rejected by CCC. CCC shall have the right to request the seller to furnish any other information and documentation it deems pertinent to the evaluation of the seller's application. In the event that the final application is approved, the Director will cause a payment guarantee to be issued in favor of the seller. Such payment guarantee will become effective at the time specified in § 1493.290(b).
§ 1493.270
Certification requirements for obtaining payment guarantee.
By providing the statement in § 1493.260(d)(12), the seller is certifying that the information provided in the initial and final applications is true and correct and, further, that all requirements set forth in this section have been met. The seller will be required to provide further explanation or documentation with regard to final applications that do not include this statement. If the seller makes false certifications with respect to a payment guarantee, CCC will have the right, in addition to any other rights provided under this subpart or otherwise as a matter of law, to revoke guarantee coverage for any goods not yet exported and services not yet performed and/or to commence legal action and/or administrative proceedings against the seller. The seller, in submitting an application for a payment guarantee and providing the statement set forth in § 1493.260(d)(12), certifies that:
(a) There have not been any corrupt payments or extra sales services or other items extraneous to the transaction provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the transaction, and the transaction complies with applicable United States law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other anti-bribery measures;
(b) At the time of submission of the final application for payment guarantee, the buyer does not appear as an excluded party on the SAM list;
(c) The seller is fully in compliance with the requirements of § 1493.320(b) for all existing payment guarantees issued to the seller or has requested and been granted an extension per § 1493.320(b)(3); and
(d) The information provided pursuant to § 1493.220 has not changed and the seller still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.220.
§ 1493.280
Special requirements of the foreign financial institution letter of credit and the terms and conditions document, if applicable.
(a)
Permitted mechanisms to document special requirements.
(1) A foreign financial institution letter of credit is required in connection with the sale to which CCC's payment guarantee pertains.
(i) If the obligation to pay by the foreign financial institution is conditioned on shipment documentation, the letter of credit must stipulate presentation of at least one original clean on board bill of lading as a required document, unless:
(A) The seller, or a related company previously reported to CCC by the seller pursuant to 1493.220(a)(5), is named as the shipper on the clean, on-board bill of lading. If the seller or a related company is named the shipper on the
bill of lading, the letter of credit may stipulate a copy or photocopy of an original, clean, on-board bill of lading; or
(B) The letter of credit stipulates presentation of electronic documents per paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If the letter of credit will allow for presentation of electronic documents, the letter of credit must so stipulate.
(iii) If the obligation to pay by the foreign financial institution is conditioned on a contractual event requiring other than shipment documentation, the contractual event must be clearly stipulated in either the letter of credit or the terms and conditions document.
(2) The use of a terms and conditions document is optional. The terms and conditions document, if any, must be specifically identified and referred to in the foreign financial institution letter of credit.
(3) The special requirements in paragraph (b) of this section must be documented in one of the two following ways:
(i) The special requirements may be set forth in the foreign financial institution letter of credit as a special instruction from the foreign financial institution; or
(ii) The special requirements may be set forth in a separate terms and conditions document.
(b)
Special requirements.
The following provisions are required and must be documented in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The terms of the repayment obligation, including a specific promise by the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit to pay the repayment obligation;
(2) The following language: “In the event that the Commodity Credit Corporation (“CCC”) is subrogated to the position of the obligee hereunder, this instrument shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, excluding its conflict of laws principles. In such case, any legal action or proceeding arising under this instrument will be brought exclusively in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York or the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, as determined by CCC, and such parties hereby irrevocably consent to the personal jurisdiction and venue therein.”;
(3) A provision permitting the holder of the payment guarantee to declare all or any part of the repayment obligation, including accrued interest, immediately due and payable, in the event a payment default occurs under the letter of credit or, if applicable, the terms and conditions document; and
(4) Post default interest terms.
§ 1493.290
Terms and requirements of the payment guarantee.
(a)
CCC's obligation.
The payment guarantee will provide that CCC agrees to pay the holder of the payment guarantee an amount not to exceed the guaranteed value, plus Eligible interest, in the event that the foreign financial institution fails to pay under the foreign financial institution letter of credit and, if applicable, the terms and conditions document. Payment by CCC will be in U.S. dollars.
(b)
Period of guarantee coverage.
The payment guarantee becomes effective on the Date(s) of Performance. For goods, the period of coverage will apply from the date on which interest begins to accrue, if earlier than the date of performance. The payment guarantee will apply to the period beginning with the Date(s) of Performance and will continue during the credit term specified in the payment guarantee or amendments thereto.
(c)
Terms of the CCC payment guarantee.
The terms of CCC's coverage will be set forth in the payment guarantee, as approved by CCC, and will include the provisions of this subpart, which may be supplemented by any program announcements and notices to participants in effect at the time the payment guarantee is approved by CCC.
(d)
Final date of performance.
The final allowable date of performance will be specified on the payment guarantee.
(e)
U.S. content test.
(1) Except as allowed under § 1493.290(f), CCC will issue a payment guarantee only if the following items collectively represent less than 50 percent of the sum of the net contract value and the value of approved local costs:
(i) The value of eligible non-U.S. goods; and
(ii) The value of imported components.
(2) Imported raw materials and basic manufactured items (such as iron, steel, nuts, bolts, etc.) which are processed, assembled or manufactured in the United States are automatically included in CCC's coverage and are not counted as imported components for the purpose of determining U.S. content.
(f)
Coverage waiver.
(1) The seller may request a coverage waiver for any of the following:
(i) To allow for guarantee coverage of non-U.S. goods; and/or
(ii) The U.S. content test, allowing for guarantee coverage of non-U.S. goods and imported components in U.S. goods in excess of the value permitted under the U.S. content test.
(2) To request a coverage waiver on one of the bases specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the seller must submit with the initial application for a payment guarantee a justification of why the non-U.S. goods and/or imported components in U.S. goods are essential to the completion of the FGP transaction. This justification must be based on one of the following:
(i) The goods and/or components are no longer manufactured in or provided by the United States;
(ii) The use of U.S. goods and/or components is not cost effective; or
(iii) U.S. goods and/or components are not compatible with the existing infrastructure in the destination country.
(3) In determining whether to grant a coverage waiver, CCC will consider the following factors:
(i) Whether information obtained by CCC from industry sources, government agencies, or any other sources supports the justification provided by the seller;
(ii) Whether the non-U.S. goods (and/or imported components in U.S. goods) are essential to the completion of the transaction; and
(iii) Any other information CCC determines is relevant.
(g)
Certain transactions are ineligible for payment guarantees.
A transaction (or any portion thereof) is ineligible for payment guarantee coverage if at any time CCC determines that:
(1) The sale includes corrupt payments or extra sales or services or other items extraneous to the transactions provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the transaction;
(2) The sale does not comply with applicable U.S. law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other anti-bribery measures;
(3) The buyer is excluded or disqualified from participation in U.S. government programs;
(4) The goods, services, and/or facility being financed will not primarily benefit U.S. agricultural commodity exports;
(5) The sale is not an eligible export sale.
(h)
Certain contractual events are ineligible for payment guarantee coverage.
The following contractual events are ineligible for coverage under an FGP payment guarantee, except where it is determined by the Director to be in the best interest of CCC to provide guarantee coverage on such contractual events:
(1) Contractual events with a date of performance prior to the date of receipt by CCC of the seller's written initial application for a payment guarantee;
(2) Contractual events with a date of performance later than the final date of performance shown on the payment guarantee or any amendments thereof;
(3) Contractual events where the date of issuance of a foreign financial institution letter of credit is later than the date of performance; or
(4) Contractual events that have been guaranteed by CCC under another payment guarantee. If CCC determines that the contractual event has been guaranteed under multiple payment guarantees (or coverage has been requested under multiple payment guarantees), CCC will determine which payment guarantee (or application for payment guarantee), if any, corresponds to an eligible export sale.
(i)
Additional requirements.
The payment guarantee may contain such additional terms, conditions, and limitations as deemed necessary or desirable by the Director. Such additional terms,
conditions or qualifications as stated in the payment guarantee are binding on the seller and the assignee.
(j)
Amendments to the firm sales contract.
Any amendments to the firm sales contract that impact contractual event(s) covered by the payment guarantee must be submitted to CCC for approval for coverage prior to the date of performance of the contractual event.
(k)
Amendments to the payment guarantee.
A request for an amendment of a payment guarantee may be submitted only by the seller, with the written concurrence of the assignee, if any, and must be accompanied by the revised firm sales contract, if applicable. The Director will consider such a request only if the amendment sought is consistent with this subpart and any applicable program announcements and sufficient budget authority exists. Any amendment to the payment guarantee, particularly those that result in an increase in CCC's liability under the payment guarantee, may result in an increase in the guarantee fee. CCC reserves the right to request additional information from the seller to justify the request and to charge a fee for amendments. Such fees will be announced and available on the USDA Web site. Any request to amend the foreign financial institution on the payment guarantee will require that the holder of the payment guarantee resubmit to CCC the certification in § 1493.310(c)(1)(i) or § 1493.330(d).
§ 1493.300
Fees.
(a)
Letter of interest fee.
A letter of interest fee, as specified on the USDA Web site, must be received by CCC before CCC will consider the seller's letter of interest.
(b)
Initial application fee.
An initial application fee, as specified on the USDA Web site, must be received by CCC before CCC will consider the seller's initial application for a payment guarantee.
(c)
Guarantee fee rates.
Guarantee fee rates will be based upon the length of the payment terms provided for in the firm sales contract, the degree of risk that CCC assumes, as determined by CCC, and any other factors that CCC determines appropriate for consideration.
(d)
Calculation of guarantee fee.
The guarantee fee will be computed by multiplying the guaranteed value by the guarantee fee rate.
(e)
Payment of guarantee fee.
The seller shall remit, with his final application, the full amount of the guarantee fee, less the previously paid letter of interest fee, if applicable, and the initial application fee. CCC will not issue a payment guarantee until the full amount of the guarantee fee has been received by CCC. The seller's wire transfer or check for the guarantee fee shall be made payable to CCC and be submitted in the manner specified on the USDA Web site.
(f)
Refunds of fees.
Letter of interest fees, initial application fees, and guarantee fees will ordinarily not be refundable unless the Director determines that such refund will be in the best interest of CCC.
§ 1493.310
Assignment of the payment guarantee.
(a)
Requirements for assignment.
The seller may assign the payment guarantee only to a U.S. financial institution approved for participation by CCC. The assignment must cover all amounts payable under the payment guarantee not already paid, may not be made to more than one party, and, unless approved in advance by CCC, may not be:
(1) Made to one party acting for two or more parties; or
(2) Subject to further assignment.
(b)
CCC to receive notice of assignment of payment guarantee.
A notice of assignment signed by the parties thereto must be filed with CCC by the assignee in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. The name and address of the assignee must be included on the written notice of assignment. The notice of assignment should be received by CCC within 30 calendar days of the date of assignment.
(c)
Required certifications.
(1) The U.S. financial institution must include the following certifications on the notice of assignment: “I certify, that:
(i) [Name of Assignee] has verified that the foreign financial institution, at the time of submission of the notice of assignment, does not appear as an excluded party on the SAM list; and
(ii) To the best of my knowledge and belief, the information provided pursuant to § 1493.230 has not changed and [name of Assignee] still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.230.”
(2) If the assignee makes a false certification with respect to a payment guarantee, CCC may, in its sole discretion, in addition to any other action available as a matter of law, rescind and cancel the payment guarantee, reject the assignment of the payment guarantee, and/or commence legal action and/or administrative proceedings against the assignee.
(d)
Notice of ineligibility to receive assignment.
In cases where a U.S. financial institution is determined to be ineligible to receive an assignment, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, CCC will provide notice thereof to the U.S. financial institution and to the seller issued the payment guarantee.
(e)
Ineligibility of U.S. financial institutions to receive an assignment and proceeds.
A U.S. financial institution will be ineligible to receive an assignment of a payment guarantee or the proceeds payable under a payment guarantee if such U.S. financial institution:
(1) At the time of assignment of a payment guarantee, is not in compliance with all requirements of § 1493.230(a); or
(2) Is the branch, agency, or subsidiary of the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit; or
(3) Is owned or controlled by an entity that owns or controls the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit; or
(4) Is the U.S. parent of the foreign financial institution issuing the foreign financial institution letter of credit; or
(5) Is owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country and the payment guarantee has been issued in connection with sales of goods or services to buyers located in such foreign country.
(f)
Repurchase agreements.
(1) The holder of the payment guarantee may enter into a repurchase agreement, to which the following requirements apply:
(i) Any repurchase under a repurchase agreement by the holder of the payment guarantee must be for the entirety of outstanding balance under the associated repayment obligation;
(ii) In the event of default with respect to the repayment obligation subject to a repurchase agreement, the holder of the payment guarantee must immediately effect such repurchase; and
(iii) The holder of the payment guarantee must file all documentation required by §§ 1493.350 and 1493.360 in case of a default by the foreign financial institution under the payment guarantee.
(2) The holder of the payment guarantee shall, within five business days of execution of a transaction under the repurchase agreement, notify CCC of the transaction in writing in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. Such notification must include the following information:
(i) Name and address of the other party to the repurchase agreement;
(ii) A statement indicating whether the transaction executed under the repurchase agreement is for a fixed term or if it is terminable upon demand by either party. If fixed, provide the purchase date and the agreed upon date for repurchase. If terminable on demand, provide the purchase date only; and
(iii) The following written certification: “[Name of holder of the payment guarantee] has entered into a repurchase agreement that meets the provisions of 7 CFR 1493.310(f)(1) and, prior to entering into this agreement, verified that [name of other party to the repurchase agreement] does not appear as an excluded party on the SAM list.”
(3) Failure of the holder of the payment guarantee to comply with any of the provisions of § 1493.310(f) may result in CCC annulling coverage on the foreign financial institution letter of credit and Terms and Condition Document, if applicable, covered by the payment guarantee.
§ 1493.320
Evidence of performance.
(a)
Report of performance.
The seller is required to provide CCC an evidence of performance report for each contractual event occurring under the payment guarantee. This report must include the following information:
(1) Payment guarantee number;
(2) Evidence of performance report number (
e.g.,
Report 1, Report 2) reflecting the report's chronological order of submission under the particular payment guarantee;
(3) Date of performance;
(4) Seller's firm sales contract number;
(5) Detailed description of the contractual event. For goods, include the applicable 10-digit Harmonized System classification code and the quantity;
(6) Net contract value of the contractual event covered by the payment guarantee;
(7) Amount of initial payment corresponding to the contractual event;
(8) Description and value of discounts and allowances, if any;
(9) Value of approved local costs corresponding to the contractual event, if any;
(10) Total FGP transaction value;
(11) Guaranteed value of contractual event;
(12) The seller's statement, “All certifications set forth in § 1493.330 are hereby made by the seller in this evidence of performance” which, when included in the evidence of performance by the seller, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.330; and
(13) In addition to all of the above information, the final evidence of performance report for the payment guarantee must include the following:
(i) The statement “All contractual events under the payment guarantee have been completed.”
(ii) A statement summarizing the total value of all contractual events covered under the payment guarantee (
i.e.,
the cumulative totals on all numbered reports).
(b)
Time limit for submission of evidence of performance.
(1) The seller must provide a written report to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site within 30 calendar days from the date of performance.
(2) If at any time the seller determines that no contractual events are to occur under a payment guarantee, the seller is required to notify CCC in writing no later than the final date of performance specified on the payment guarantee by furnishing the payment guarantee number and stating “No contractual events will occur under the payment guarantee.”
(3) Requests for an extension of the time limit for submitting an evidence of performance report must be submitted in writing by the seller to the Director and must include an explanation of why the extension is needed. An extension of the time limit may be granted if such extension is requested prior to the expiration of the time limit for filing and is determined by the Director to be in the best interests of CCC.
(c)
Failure to comply with time limits for submission.
CCC will not accept any new applications for payment guarantees from a seller under § 1493.260 until the seller is fully in compliance with the requirements of § 1493.320(b) for all existing payment guarantees issued to that seller or has requested and been granted an extension in accordance with § 1493.320(b)(3).
§ 1493.330
Certification requirements for the evidence of performance.
By providing the statement contained in § 1493.320(a)(12), the seller is certifying that the information provided in the evidence of performance report is true and correct and, further, that all requirements set forth in this section have been met. The seller will be required to provide further explanation or documentation with regard to reports that do not include this statement. If the seller makes false certifications with respect to a payment guarantee, CCC will have the right, in addition to any other rights provided under this subpart or otherwise as a matter of law, to annul guarantee coverage for any contractual events that have not yet occurred and/or to commence legal action and/or administrative proceedings against the seller. The seller, in submitting the evidence of performance and providing the statement set forth in § 1493.320(a)(12), certifies that:
(a) The specifications and/or quantity of the contractual event conform with the information contained in the seller's application for payment guarantee and firm sales contract, or if different, CCC has approved such changes;
(b) A foreign financial institution letter of credit has been opened in favor of the seller by the foreign financial institution shown on the payment guarantee to cover the dollar amount of the contractual event covered by the payment guarantee, less the initial payment and less discounts and allowances;
(c) There have not been any corrupt payments or extra sales services or other items extraneous to the transaction provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the transaction, and that the transaction complies with applicable United States law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other anti-bribery measures;
(d) If the seller has not assigned the payment guarantee to a U.S. financial institution, the seller has verified that the foreign financial institution, at the time of submission of the evidence of performance report, does not appear as an excluded party on the SAM list; and
(e) The information provided pursuant to §§ 1493.220 and 1493.260 has not changed (except as agreed to and amended by CCC) and the seller still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.220.
§ 1493.340
Proof of entry.
(a)
Diversion.
The diversion of goods covered by an FGP payment guarantee to a destination country other than that shown on the payment guarantee is prohibited, unless expressly authorized in writing by the Director.
(b)
Records of proof of entry.
(1) Sellers must obtain and maintain records of an official or customary commercial nature that demonstrate the arrival of the goods sold in connection with the FGP in the destination country. At the Director's request, the seller must submit to CCC records demonstrating proof of entry. Records demonstrating proof of entry must be in English or be accompanied by a certified or other translation acceptable to CCC. Records acceptable to meet this requirement include an original certification of entry signed by a duly authorized customs or port official of the destination country, by an agent or representative of the vessel or shipline that delivered the goods to the destination country, or by a private surveyor in the destination country, or other documentation deemed acceptable by the Director showing:
(i) That the good(s) entered the destination country;
(ii) The identification of the export carrier;
(iii) The quantity of the good(s);
(iv) A description of the good(s); and
(v) The date(s) and place(s) of unloading of the good(s) in the destination country.
(2) Where shipping documents (
e.g.,
bills of lading) clearly demonstrate that the goods were shipped to the destination country, proof of entry verification may be provided by the buyer.
§ 1493.350
Notice of default.
(a)
Notice of default.
If the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit fails to make payment pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit or the terms and conditions document, the holder of the payment guarantee must submit a notice of default to CCC as soon as possible, but not later than 5 business days after the date that payment was due from the foreign financial institution (the due date). A notice of default must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site and must include the following information:
(1) Payment guarantee number;
(2) Name of the destination country as shown on the payment guarantee;
(3) Name of the defaulting foreign financial institution;
(4) Payment due date;
(5) Total amount of the defaulted payment due, indicating separately the amounts for principal and ordinary interest, and including a copy of the repayment schedule with due dates, principal amounts and ordinary interest rates for each installment;
(6) Date of foreign financial institution's refusal to pay, if applicable;
(7) Reason for foreign financial institution's refusal to pay, if known, and copies of any correspondence with the foreign financial institution regarding the default.
(b)
Failure to comply with time limit for submission.
If the holder of the payment
guarantee fails to notify CCC of a default within 5 business days, CCC may deny the claim for that default.
(c)
Impact of a default on other existing payment guarantees.
(1) In the event that a foreign financial institution defaults under a repayment obligation under this subpart or under 7 CFR 1493, subpart B, CCC may declare that such foreign financial institution is no longer eligible to provide additional Letters of Credit under the FGP. If CCC determines that such defaulting foreign financial institution is no longer eligible for the FGP, CCC shall provide written notice of such ineligibility to all sellers and assignees, if any, having payment guarantees covering transactions with respect to which the defaulting foreign financial institution is expected to issue a letter of credit. Receipt of written notice from CCC that a defaulting foreign financial institution is no longer eligible to provide additional Letters of Credit under the FGP shall constitute withdrawal of coverage of that foreign financial institution under all payment guarantees with respect to any letter of credit issued on or after the date of receipt of such written notice. CCC will not withdraw coverage of the defaulting foreign financial institution under any payment guarantee with respect to any letter of credit issued before the date of receipt of such written notice.
(2) If CCC withdraws coverage of the defaulting foreign financial institution, CCC will permit the seller (with concurrence of the assignee, if any) to utilize another approved foreign financial institution, and will consider other requested amendments to the payment guarantee, for the balance of the transaction covered by the payment guarantee. If no alternate foreign financial institution is identified to issue the letter of credit within 30 calendar days, CCC will cancel the payment guarantee and refund the seller's guarantee fees corresponding to any unutilized portion of the payment guarantee.
§ 1493.360
Claims for default.
(a)
Filing a claim.
A claim by the holder of the payment guarantee for a defaulted payment will not be paid if it is made later than 180 calendar days from the due date of the defaulted payment. A claim must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. The claim must include the following documents and information:
(1) An original cover letter signed by the holder of the payment guarantee and containing the following information:
(i) Payment guarantee number;
(ii) A description of:
(A) Any payments from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the defaulted payment that were received by the seller or the assignee prior to submission of the claim; and
(B) Any security, insurance, or collateral arrangements, whether or not any payment has been realized from such security, insurance, or collateral arrangement as of the time of claim, from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the defaulted payment.
(iii) The following certifications:
(A) A certification that the defaulted payment has not been received (or, alternatively, specifying the portion of the scheduled payment that has not been received), listing separately scheduled principal and ordinary interest;
(B) A certification of the amount of the defaulted payment, indicating separately the amounts for defaulted principal and ordinary interest;
(C) A certification that all documents submitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section are true and correct copies; and
(D) A certification that all documents conforming with the requirements for payment under the foreign financial institution letter of credit have been submitted to the negotiating bank or directly to the foreign financial institution under such letter of credit.
(2) An original instrument, in form and substance satisfactory to CCC, subrogating to CCC the respective rights of the holder of the payment guarantee to the amount of payment in default under the applicable sale. The instrument must reference the applicable foreign financial institution letter of credit and, if applicable, the terms and conditions document; and
(3) A copy of each of the following documents:
(i) The repayment schedule with due dates, principal amounts and ordinary interest rates for each installment (if the ordinary interest rates for future payments are unknown at the time of the claim for default is submitted, provide estimates of such rates);
(ii) (A) The foreign financial institution letter of credit securing the sale; and
(B) If applicable, the terms and conditions document;
(iii) For goods, depending upon the method of shipment, the ocean carrier or intermodal bill(s) of lading signed by the shipping company with the onboard ocean carrier date for each shipment, the airway bill, or, if shipped by rail or truck, the bill of lading and the entry certificate or similar document signed by an official of the destination country. If the transaction utilizes electronic bill(s) of lading (e-BL), a print-out of the e-BL from electronic system with an electronic signature is acceptable;
(iv) The seller's invoice. For shipment of goods, the invoice must show the applicable Incoterms;
(v) The evidence of performance report(s) previously submitted by the seller to CCC in conformity with the requirements of § 1493.320(a); and
(vi) If the defaulted payment was part of a transaction executed under a repurchase agreement, written evidence that the repurchase occurred as required under § 1493.310(f)(1)(ii).
(b)
Additional documents.
If a claim is denied by CCC, the holder of the payment guarantee may provide further documentation to CCC to establish that the claim is in good order.
(c)
Subsequent claims for defaults on installments.
If the initial claim is found in good order, the holder of the payment guarantee need only provide all of the required claims documents with the initial claim relating to a covered transaction. For subsequent claims relating to failure of the foreign financial institution to make scheduled installments on the same contractual event, the holder of the payment guarantee need only submit to CCC a notice of such failure containing the information stated in paragraph (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(ii), and (a)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section; an instrument of subrogation as per paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and the date the original claim was filed with CCC.
(d)
Alternative satisfaction of payment guarantees.
CCC may establish procedures, terms and/or conditions for the satisfaction of CCC's obligations under a payment guarantee other than those provided for in this subpart if CCC determines that those alternative procedures, terms, and/or conditions are appropriate in rescheduling the debts arising out of any transaction covered by the payment guarantee and would not result in CCC paying more than the amount of CCC's obligation.
§ 1493.370
Payment for default.
(a)
Determination of CCC's liability.
Upon receipt in good order of the information and documents required under § 1493.360, CCC will determine whether or not a default has occurred for which CCC is liable under the applicable payment guarantee. Such determination shall include, but not be limited to, CCC's determination that all documentation conforms to the specific requirements contained in this subpart, and that all documents submitted for payment conform to the requirements of the letter of credit and, if applicable, the terms and conditions document. If CCC determines that it is liable to the holder of the payment guarantee, CCC will pay the holder of the payment guarantee in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Amount of CCC's liability.
CCC's maximum liability for any claims submitted with respect to any payment guarantee, not including any CCC late interest Payments due in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, will be limited to the lesser of:
(1) The guaranteed value as stated in the payment guarantee, plus Eligible interest, less any payments received or funds realized from insurance, security or collateral arrangements prior to claim by the seller or the assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the obligation in default (other than payments between CCC, the seller or the assignee); or
(2) The guaranteed percentage (as indicated in the payment guarantee) of
the value of the contractual event indicated in the evidence of performance, plus eligible interest, less any payments received or funds realized from insurance, security or collateral arrangements prior to claim by the seller or the assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party or otherwise related to the obligation in default (other than payments between CCC, the seller or the assignee).
(c)
CCC late interest.
If CCC does not pay a claim within 15 business days of receiving the claim in good order, CCC late interest will accrue in favor of the holder of the payment guarantee beginning with the sixteenth business day after the day of receipt of a complete and valid claim found by CCC to be in good order and continuing until and including the date that payment is made by CCC. CCC late interest will be paid on the guaranteed amount, as determined by paragraph (b) of this section, and will be calculated at a rate equal to the average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction as announced by the Department of Treasury as of the due date. If there has been no 91-day auction within 90 calendar days of the date CCC late interest begins to accrue, CCC will apply an alternative rate in a manner to be described on the USDA Web site.
(d)
Accelerated payments.
CCC will pay claims only on amounts not paid as scheduled. CCC will not pay claims for amounts due as a result of the claimant invoking an accelerated payment clause in the firm sales contract, the foreign financial institution letter of credit, the terms and conditions document (if applicable), or any obligation owed by the foreign financial institution to the holder of the payment guarantee that is related to the letter of credit issued in favor of the seller, unless it is determined to be in the best interests of CCC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CCC at its option may declare up to the entire amount of the unpaid balance, plus accrued ordinary interest, in default, require the holder of the payment guarantee to invoke the acceleration provision in the foreign financial institution letter of credit or, if applicable, in the terms and conditions document, require submission of all claims documents specified in § 1493.360, and make payment to the holder of the payment guarantee in addition to such other claimed amount as may be due from CCC.
(e)
Action against the assignee.
If an assignee submits a claim for default pursuant to § 1493.360 and all documents submitted appear on their face to conform with the requirements of such section, CCC will not hold the assignee responsible or take any action or raise any defense against the assignee for any action, omission, or statement by the seller of which the assignee has no knowledge.
§ 1493.380
Recovery of defaulted payments.
(a)
Notification.
Upon claim payment to the holder of the payment guarantee, CCC will notify the foreign financial institution of CCC's rights under the subrogation agreement to recover all monies in default.
(b)
Receipt of monies.
(1) In the event that monies related to the obligation in default are recovered by the seller or the assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party, the buyer, or any source whatsoever (excluding payments between CCC, the seller and the assignee), such monies shall be immediately paid to CCC. Any monies derived from insurance or through the liquidation of any security or collateral after the claim is filed with CCC shall be deemed recoveries that must be paid by the seller and/or assignee to CCC. If such monies are not received by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery by the seller or the assignee, such party will also owe to CCC interest from the date of recovery of such funds to the date of CCC's receipt of such funds. This interest will be calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and will accrue from such date to the date of payment by the seller or the assignee to CCC. Such interest will be charged only on CCC's share of the recovery. If there has been no 91-day auction within 90 calendar days of the date interest begins to accrue, CCC will apply an alternative rate in a manner to be described on the USDA Web site.
(2) If CCC recovers monies that should be applied to a payment guarantee for which a claim has been paid by CCC, CCC will pay the holder of the payment guarantee its pro rata share if any, provided that the required information necessary for determining pro rata distribution has been furnished. If a required payment is not made by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery or 15 business days from receiving the required information for determining pro rata distribution, whichever is later, CCC will pay interest calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery, and interest will accrue from such date to the date of payment by CCC. The interest will apply only to the portion of the recovery payable to the holder of the payment guarantee.
(c)
Allocation of recoveries.
Recoveries received by CCC from any source whatsoever that are related to the obligation in default will be allocated by CCC to the holder of the payment guarantee and to CCC on a pro rata basis determined by their respective interests in such recoveries. The respective interest of each party will be determined on a pro rata basis, based on the combined amount of principal and interest in default on the date the claim is paid by CCC. Once CCC has paid out a particular claim under a payment guarantee, CCC prorates any collections it receives and shares these collections proportionately with the holder of the payment guarantee until both CCC and the holder of the payment guarantee have been reimbursed in full.
(d)
Liabilities to CCC.
Notwithstanding any other terms of the payment guarantee, under the following circumstances the seller or the assignee will be liable to CCC for any amounts paid by CCC under the payment guarantee:
(1) The seller will be liable to CCC when and if it is determined by CCC that the seller has engaged in fraud, or has been or is in material breach of any contractual obligation, certification or warranty made by the seller for the purpose of obtaining the payment guarantee or for fulfilling obligations under the FGP; and
(2) The assignee will be liable to CCC when and if it is determined by CCC that the assignee has engaged in fraud or otherwise violated program requirements.
(e)
Cooperation in recoveries.
Upon payment by CCC of a claim to the holder of the payment guarantee, the holder of the payment guarantee and the seller will cooperate with CCC to affect recoveries from the foreign financial institution and/or the buyer. Cooperation may include, but is not limited to, submission of documents to the foreign financial institution (or its representative) to establish a claim; participation in discussions with CCC regarding the appropriate course of action with respect to a default; actions related to accelerated payments as specified in § 1493.370(d); and other actions that do not increase the obligation of the holder of the payment guarantee or the seller under the payment guarantee.
§ 1493.385
Additional obligations and requirements.
(a)
Maintenance of records and access to premises, and responding to CCC inquiries.
For a period of five years after the date of expiration of the coverage of a payment guarantee, the seller and the assignee, if applicable, must maintain and make available all records and respond completely to all inquiries pertaining to sales and deliveries of and extension of credit for goods and services sold in connection with a payment guarantee, including those records generated and maintained by agents and related companies involved in special arrangements with the seller. The Secretary of Agriculture and the Comptroller General of the United States, through their authorized representatives, must be given full and complete access to the premises of the seller and the assignee, as applicable, during regular business hours from the effective date of the payment guarantee until the expiration of such five-year period to inspect, examine, audit, and make copies of the seller's, assignee's, agent's, or related company's books,
records and accounts concerning transactions relating to the payment guarantee, including, but not limited to, financial records and accounts pertaining to sales, inventory, processing, and administrative and incidental costs, both normal and unforeseen. During such period, the seller and the assignee may be required to make available to the Secretary of Agriculture or the Comptroller General of the United States, through their authorized representatives, records that pertain to transactions conducted outside the program, if, in the opinion of the Director, such records would pertain directly to the review of transactions undertaken by the seller in connection with the payment guarantee.
(b)
Responsibility of program participants.
It is the responsibility of all sellers and U.S. and foreign financial institutions to review, and fully acquaint themselves with, all regulations, program announcements, and notices to participants relating to the FGP, as applicable. All sellers and U.S. and foreign financial institutions participating in the FGP are hereby on notice that they will be bound by this subpart and any terms contained in the payment guarantee and in applicable program announcements.
(c)
Submission of documents by principals.
All required submissions, including certifications, applications, reports, or requests (
i.e.,
requests for amendments), by sellers, assignees, or foreign financial institutions under this subpart must be signed by a principal of the seller, assignee, or foreign financial institution or their authorized designee(s). In cases where the designee is acting on behalf of the principal, the signature must be accompanied by wording indicating the delegation of authority or, in the alternative, by a certified copy of the delegation of authority, and the name and title of the authorized person or officer. Further, the seller, assignee, or foreign financial institution must ensure that all information and reports required under these regulations are timely submitted.
(d)
Misstatements or noncompliance by seller may lead to rescission of payment guarantee.
CCC may cancel a payment guarantee in the event that a seller makes a willful misstatement in the certifications in §§ 1493.270(a) and 1493.330(c) or if the seller fails to comply with the provisions of § 1493.340 or § 1493.385(a). However, notwithstanding the foregoing, CCC will not cancel its payment guarantee if it determines, in its sole discretion, that an assignee had no knowledge of the seller's misstatement or noncompliance at the time of assignment of the payment guarantee.
§ 1493.390
Dispute resolution and appeals.
(a)
Dispute resolution.
(1) The Director and the seller or the assignee will attempt to resolve any disputes, including any adverse determinations made by CCC, arising under the FGP, this subpart, the applicable program announcements and notices to participants, or the payment guarantee.
(2) The seller or the assignee may seek reconsideration of a determination made by the Director by submitting a letter requesting reconsideration to the Director within 30 calendar days of the date of the determination. For the purposes of this section, the date of a determination will be the date of the letter or other means of notification to the seller or the assignee of the determination. The seller or the assignee may include with the letter requesting reconsideration any additional information that it wishes the Director to consider in reviewing its request. The Director will respond to the request for reconsideration within 30 calendar days of the date on which the request or the final documentary evidence submitted by the seller or the assignee is received by the Director, whichever is later, unless the Director extends the time permitted for response. If the seller or the assignee fails to request reconsideration of a determination by the Director within 30 calendar days of the date of the determination, then the determination of the Director will be deemed final.
(3) If the seller or the assignee requests reconsideration of a determination by the Director pursuant to subparagraph (a)(2) of this section, and the
Director upholds the original determination, then the seller or the assignee may appeal the Director's final determination to the GSM in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If the seller or the assignee fails to appeal the Director's final determination within 30 calendar days, as provided in § 1493.390(b)(1), then the Director's decision becomes the final determination of CCC.
(b)
Appeal procedures.
(1) A seller or assignee that has exhausted the procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section may appeal a final determination of the Director to the GSM. An appeal to the GSM must be made in writing and filed with the office of the GSM no later than 30 calendar days following the date of the final determination by the Director. If the seller or the assignee requests an administrative hearing in its appeal letter, it shall be entitled to a hearing before the GSM or the GSM's designee.
(2) If the seller or the assignee does not request an administrative hearing, the seller or the assignee must indicate in its appeal letter whether or not it will submit any additional written information or documentation for the GSM to consider in acting upon its appeal. This information or documentation must be submitted to the GSM within 30 calendar days of the date of the appeal letter to the GSM. The GSM will make a decision regarding the appeal based upon the information contained in the administrative record. The GSM will issue his or her written decision within 60 calendar days of the latter of the date on which the GSM receives the appeal or the date that final documentary evidence is submitted by the seller or the assignee to the GSM.
(3) If the seller or the assignee has requested an administrative hearing, the GSM will set a date and time for the hearing that is mutually convenient for the GSM and the seller or the assignee. This date will ordinarily be within 60 calendar days of the date on which the GSM receives the request for a hearing. The hearing will be an informal procedure. The seller or the assignee and/or its counsel may present any relevant testimony or documentary evidence to the GSM. A transcript of the hearing will not ordinarily be prepared unless the seller or the assignee bears the costs involved in preparing the transcript, although the GSM may decide to have a transcript prepared at the expense of the Government. The GSM will make a decision regarding the appeal based upon the information contained in the administrative record. The GSM will issue his or her written decision within 60 calendar days of the latter of the date of the hearing or the date of receipt of the transcript, if one is to be prepared.
(4) The decision of the GSM will be the final determination of CCC. The seller or the assignee will be entitled to no further administrative appellate rights.
(c)
Failure to comply with determination.
If the seller or the assignee has violated the terms of this subpart or the payment guarantee by failing to comply with a determination made under this section, and the seller or the assignee has exhausted its rights under this section or has failed to exercise such rights, then CCC will have the right to exercise any remedies available to CCC under applicable law.
(d)
Seller's obligation to perform.
The seller will continue to have an obligation to perform pursuant to the provisions of these regulations and the terms of the payment guarantee pending the conclusion of all procedures under this section.
§ 1493.395
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
Officials not to benefit.
No member of or delegate to Congress, or Resident Commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of the payment guarantee or to any benefit that may arise therefrom, but this provision shall not be construed to extend to the payment guarantee if made with a corporation for its general benefit.
(b)
OMB control number assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part (7 CFR part 1493) have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB Control Number 0551-0032.

# Subpart D—CCC Supplier Credit Guarantee Program Operations

# Source:
61 FR 33831, July 1, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1493.400
General statement.
(a)
Overview.
(1) This subpart contains the regulations governing the operations of the Supplier Credit Guarantee Program (SCGP). The restrictions and criteria set forth at subpart A for the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-102) and the Intermediate Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-103) will apply to this subpart. The SCGP was developed to expand U.S. agricultural exports by making available payment guarantees to encourage U.S. exporters to extend financing on credit terms of not more than 180 days to importers of U.S. agricultural commodities.
(2) The SCGP operates in cases where credit is necessary to increase or maintain U.S. exports to a foreign market and where private U.S. exporters would be unwilling to provide financing without CCC's guarantee. The program is operated in a manner intended not to interfere with markets for cash sales. The program is targeted toward those countries where the guarantees are necessary to secure financing of the exports but which have sufficient financial strength so that foreign exchange will be available for scheduled payments. In providing this credit guarantee facility, CCC seeks to expand market opportunities for U.S. agricultural exporters and assist long-term market development for U.S. agricultural commodities.
(3) The credit facility created by this program is the SCGP payment guarantee (payment guarantee). The payment guarantee is an agreement by CCC to pay the exporter, or the U.S. financial institution that may take assignment of the exporter's right to proceeds, specified amounts of principal and, where applicable, interest due from, but not paid by, the importer incurring the obligation in connection with the export sale to which CCC's guarantee coverage pertains. By approving an exporter's application for a payment guarantee, CCC encourages private sector, rather than government, financing and incurs a substantial portion of the risk of default by the importer. CCC assumes this risk, in order to be able to operate the program for the purposes specified in § 1493.2.
(b)
Credit facility mechanism.
(1) For the purpose of the SCGP, CCC will consider applications for payment guarantees only in connection with export sales of U.S. agricultural commodities where the payment for the agricultural commodities will be made under an unconditional and irrevocable importer obligation to a U.S. exporter payable in U.S. dollars, as defined in § 1493.410(n).
(2) The exporter may assign the right to proceeds under the importer obligation to a U.S. bank or other financial institution so that the exporter may realize the proceeds of the sale prior to the deferred payment date(s) as set forth in the importer obligation.
(3) The SCGP payment guarantee is designed to protect the exporter or the exporter's assignee against those losses specified in the payment guarantee resulting from defaults, whether for commercial or noncommercial reasons, by the importer under the importer's obligation.
(c)
Program administration.
The SCGP will be administered pursuant to subpart A and this subpart and any Program Announcements and Notices to Participants issued by CCC pursuant to, and not inconsistent with, this subpart. This program is under the general administrative responsibility of the General Sales Manager (GSM), Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS/USDA). The review and payment of claims for loss will be administered by the Office of the Controller, CCC. Information regarding specific points of contact for the public, including names, addresses, and telephone and facsimile numbers of particular USDA or CCC offices, will be announced by a public press release (see § 1493.410(c), “Contacts P/R”).
(d)
Country allocations and program announcements.
From time to time, CCC will issue a Program Announcement to announce a SCGP allocation for a specific country. The Program Announcement for a country allocation will designate specific allocations for U.S. agricultural commodities or products thereof, will indicate the form of
promissory note required by CCC, and will provide other pertinent information. Exporters may negotiate export sales to importers in that country for one of the commodities specified in the Program Announcement and seek payment guarantee coverage within the dollar amounts of specified coverage for that commodity. The Program Announcement will contain a requirement that the exporter's sales contract contain a shipping deadline within the applicable program year. The final date for a contractual shipping deadline will be stated in the Program Announcement. Program Announcements may also contain a specified “undesignated” or “unallocated” dollar amount for the purpose that if dollar amounts specified for a specific commodity for a country become fully used, an additional allocation from the “unallocated” or “undesignated” portion of the total country allocation may then be designated for a specific commodity. Program Announcements that include an “unallocated” or “undesignated” dollar amount will contain further information on the “unallocated” or “undesignated” portion of the country allocation.
§ 1493.410
Definition of terms.
Terms set forth in this subpart and in CCC Program Announcements, Notices to Participants, and any other CCC-originated documents pertaining to the SCGP will have the following meanings:
(a)
Assignee.
A financial institution in the United States which, for adequate consideration given, has obtained the legal rights to receive the payment of proceeds under the payment guarantee.
(b)
CCC.
The Commodity Credit Corporation, an agency and instrumentality of the United States within the Department of Agriculture, authorized pursuant to the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act of 1948 (15 U.S.C. 714
et seq.
), and subject to the general supervision and direction of the Secretary of Agriculture.
(c)
Contacts P/R.
A notice issued by FAS/USDA by public press release which contains specific names, addresses, and telephone and facsimile numbers of contacts within FAS/USDA and CCC for use by persons interested in obtaining information concerning the operations of the SCGP. The Contacts P/R also contains details about where to submit information required to qualify for program participation, to apply for payment guarantees, to request amendments of payment guarantees, to submit evidence of export reports, and to give notices of default and file claims for loss.
(d)
Date of export.
One of the following dates, depending upon the method of shipment: the on-board date of an ocean bill of lading or the on-board ocean carrier date of an intermodal bill of lading; the on-board date of an airway bill; or, if exported by rail or truck, the date of entry shown on an entry certificate or similar document issued and signed by an official of the Government of the importing country.
(e)
Date of sale.
The earliest date on which a contractual obligation exists between the exporter, or an intervening purchaser, if applicable, and the importer under which a firm dollar-and-cent price for the sale of agricultural commodities to the importer has been established or a mechanism to establish such price has been agreed upon.
(f)
Discounts and allowances.
Any consideration provided directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of the exporter, or an intervening purchaser, to the importer in connection with a sale of an agricultural commodity, above and beyond the commodity's value, stated on the appropriate FOB, FAS, CFR or CIF basis. Discounts and allowances include, but are not limited to, the provision of additional goods, services or benefits; the promise to provide additional goods, services or benefits in the future; financial rebates; the assumption of any financial or contractual obligations; the whole or partial release of the importer from any financial or contractual obligations; or settlements made in favor of the importer for quality or weight.
(g)
Eligible interest.
The maximum amount of interest, based on the interest rate indicated in CCC's payment guarantee or any amendments to such payment guarantee, which CCC agrees to pay the exporter or the exporter's assignee in the event that CCC pays a
claim for loss. The maximum interest rate stated in the payment guarantee, when determined or adjusted by CCC, will not exceed the average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 52-week bill auction in effect at that time.
(h)
Exported value.
(1) Where CCC announces coverage on a FAS or FOB basis and:
(i) Where the commodity is sold on a FAS or FOB basis, the value, FAS or FOB basis, U.S. point of export, of the export sale, reduced by the value of any discounts or allowances granted to the importer in connection with such sale; or
(ii) Where the commodity was sold on a CFR or CIF basis, point of entry, the value of the export sale, FAS or FOB, point of export, is measured by the CFR or CIF value of the agricultural commodity less the cost of ocean freight, as determined at the time of application and, in the case of CIF sales, less the cost of marine and war risk insurance, as determined at the time of application, reduced by the value of any discounts or allowances granted to the importer in connection with the sale of the commodity; or
(2) Where CCC announces coverage on a CFR or CIF basis, and where the commodity is sold on a CFR or CIF basis, point of entry, the total value of the export sale, CFR or CIF basis, point of entry, reduced by the value of any discounts or allowances granted to the importer in connection with the sale of the commodity.
(3) When a CFR or CIF commodity export sale involves the performance of non-freight services to be performed outside the United States (e.g., services such as bagging bulk cargo) which are not normally included in ocean freight contracts, the value of such services and any related materials not exported from the U.S. with the commodity must also be deducted from the CFR or CIF sales price in determining the exported value.
(i)
Exporter.
A seller of U.S. agricultural commodities or products thereof that has qualified in accordance with the provisions of § 1493.420.
(j)
FAS/USDA.
The Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(k)
GSM.
The General Sales Manager, FAS/USDA, acting in his capacity as Vice President, CCC, or his designee.
(l)
Guaranteed value.
The maximum amount, exclusive of interest, that CCC agrees to pay the exporter or assignee under CCC's payment guarantee, as indicated on the face of the payment guarantee.
(m)
Importer.
A foreign buyer that enters into a contract with an exporter, or with an intervening purchaser, for an export sale of agricultural commodities to be shipped from the U.S. to the foreign buyer.
(n)
Importer obligation.
A promissory note or notes that conform(s) with the requirements for such note(s) specified in the applicable country or regional Program Announcement(s).
(o)
Incoterms.
The following customary terms, as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce, Incoterms
©
current revision):
(1) Free Alongside Ship (FAS);
(2) Free on Board (FOB);
(3) Cost and Freight (CFR, or alternatively, C
F, C and F, or CNF); and
(4) Cost Insurance and Freight (CIF).
(p)
Intervening purchaser.
A party that agrees to purchase U.S. agricultural commodities from an exporter and sell the same agricultural commodities to an importer.
(q)
Late interest.
Interest, in addition to the interest due under the payment guarantee, which CCC agrees to pay in connection with a claim for loss, accruing during the period beginning on the first day after receipt of a claim which CCC has determined to be in good order and ending on the day on which payment is made on such claim for loss.
(r)
Notice to participants.
A notice issued by CCC by public press release which serves one or more of the following functions: to remind participants of the requirements of the program; to clarify the program requirements contained in these regulations in a manner which is not inconsistent with the regulations; to instruct exporters to provide additional information in applications for payment guarantees under specific country and/or commodity allocations; and to supplement the provisions of a payment guarantee, in a manner not inconsistent
with these regulations, before the exporter's application for such payment guarantee is approved.
(s)
Payment guarantee.
An agreement under which CCC, in consideration of a fee paid, and in reliance upon the statements and declarations of the exporter, subject to the terms set forth in the written guarantee (including the required form of promissory note), this subpart, and any applicable Program Announcements or Notices to Participants, agrees to pay the exporter or the exporter's assignee in the event of a default by an importer under the importer obligation.
(t)
Port value.
(1) Where CCC announces coverage on a FAS or FOB basis and:
(i) Where the commodity is sold on a FAS or FOB basis, U.S. point of export, the value, FAS or FOB basis, U.S. point of export, of the export sale, including the upward tolerance, if any, as provided by the export sales contract, reduced by the value of any discounts or allowances granted to the importer in connection with such sale; or
(ii) Where the commodity was sold on a CFR or CIF basis, point of entry, the value of the export sale, FAS or FOB, point of export, including the upward tolerance, if any, as provided by the export sales contract, is measured by the CFR or CIF value of the agricultural commodity less the value of ocean freight and, in the case of CIF sales, less the value of marine and war risk insurance, reduced by the value of any discounts or allowances granted to the importer in connection with the sale of the commodity; or
(2) Where CCC announces coverage on a CFR or CIF basis and where the commodity was sold on CFR or CIF basis, point of entry, the total value of the export sale, CFR or CIF basis, point of entry, including the upward tolerance, if any, as provided by the export sales contract, reduced by the value of any discounts or allowances granted to the importer in connection with the sale of the commodity.
(3) When a CFR or CIF commodity export sale involves the performance of non-freight services to be performed outside the United States (e.g., services such as bagging bulk cargo), which are not normally included in ocean freight contracts, the value of such services and any related materials not exported from the U.S. with the commodity must also be deducted from the CFR or CIF sales price in determining the port value.
(u)
Program announcement.
An announcement issued by CCC which provides information on specific country and commodity allocations and may identify eligible agricultural commodities and countries, length of credit periods which may be covered, specify dollar limitations for CCC exposure in particular countries, the form of promissory note required for a particular country or region, and include other information and requirements.
(v)
SCGP.
The Supplier Credit Guarantee Program described by this subpart.
(w)
United States or U.S.
All of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
(x)
U.S. agricultural commodity.
(1) An agricultural commodity or product entirely produced in the United States; or
(2) A product of an agricultural commodity—
(i) 90 percent or more of the agricultural components of which by weight, excluding packaging and added water, is entirely produced in the United States; and
(ii) That the Secretary determines to be a high value agricultural product. For purposes of this definition, fish entirely produced in the United States include fish harvested by a documented fishing vessel as defined in title 46, United States Code, in waters that are not waters (including the territorial sea) of a foreign country.
(y)
USDA.
United States Department of Agriculture.
[61 FR 33831, July 1, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 24561, May 6, 1997]
§ 1493.420
Information required for program participation.
Before CCC will accept an application for a payment guarantee under the SCGP, the applicant must qualify for participation in this program. Based upon the information submitted by the applicant and other publicly available sources, CCC will determine whether
the applicant is eligible for participation in the program.
(a)
Submission of documentation.
In order to qualify for participation in the SCGP, an applicant must submit to CCC, at the address specified in the Contacts P/R, the following information:
(1) The address of the applicant's headquarters office and the name and address of an agent in the U.S. for the service of process;
(2) The legal form of doing business of the applicant, e.g., sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, etc.;
(3) The place of incorporation of the applicant, if the applicant is a corporation;
(4) The name and U.S. address of the office(s) of the applicant, and statement indicating whether the applicant is a U.S. domestic corporation, a foreign corporation or another foreign entity. If the applicant has multiple offices, the address included in the information should be that which is pertinent to the particular export sale contemplated by the applicant under this subpart;
(5) A certified statement describing the applicant's participation, if any, during the past three years in U.S. Government programs, contracts or agreements; and
(6) A certification that: “I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that neither [name of applicant] nor any of its principals has been debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment from contracting with or participating in programs administered by any U.S. Government agency. [”Principals,” for the purpose of this certification, means officers; directors; owners of five percent or more of stock; partners; and persons having primary management or supervisory responsibility within a business entity (e.g., general manager, plant manager, head of a subsidiary division, or business segment, and similar positions).] I further agree that, should any such debarment, suspension, or notice of proposed debarment occur in the future, [name of applicant] will immediately notify CCC.”
(b)
Previous qualification.
Any exporter that is qualified under subpart B, § 1493.30 is qualified under this section to submit applications for a SCGP payment guarantee, and the information provided by the exporter pursuant to § 1493.30 will be deemed to also have been provided under this section. Each application must include the statement required by § 1493.430(a)(17) incorporating the certifications of § 1493.440, including the certification in § 1493.440(e) that the information previously provided pursuant to § 1493.420 has not changed. If the exporter is unable to provide such certification, such exporter must update the information required by paragraph (a) of this section which has changed and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided has not changed.
(c)
Additional submissions.
CCC will promptly notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by CCC.
(d)
Ineligibility for program participation.
An applicant may be ineligible to participate in the SCGP if:
(1) Such applicant is currently debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment from contracting with or participating in any program administered by a U.S. Government agency; or
(2) Such applicant is controlled or can be controlled, in whole or in part, by any individuals or entities currently debarred, suspended or proposed for debarment from contracting with or participating in programs administered by any U.S. Government agency.
§ 1493.430
Application for a payment guarantee.
(a) A firm export sale must exist before an exporter may submit an application for a payment guarantee. An application for a payment guarantee may be submitted in writing or may be made by telephone, but, if made by telephone, it must be confirmed in writing to the office specified in the Contacts P/R. An application must identify the name and address of the exporter and include the following information:
(1) Name of the destination country;
(2) Name and address of the importer;
(3) Name and address of the intervening purchaser, if any, and a statement that the commodity will be shipped directly to the importer in the destination country;
(4) Date of sale;
(5) Exporter's sale number;
(6) Delivery period as agreed between the exporter and the importer;
(7) A full description of the commodity (including packaging, if any);
(8) Mean quantity, contract loading tolerance and, if the exporter chooses, a request for CCC to reserve coverage up to the maximum quantity permitted by the contract loading tolerance;
(9) Unit sales price of the commodity, or a mechanism to establish the price, as agreed between the exporter and the importer. If the commodity was sold on the basis of CFR or CIF, the actual (if known at the time of application) or estimated value of freight and, in the case of sales made on a CIF basis, the actual (if known at the time of application) or estimated value of marine and war risk insurance, must be specified;
(10) Description and value of discounts and allowances, if any;
(11) Port value (includes upward loading tolerance, if any);
(12) Guaranteed value;
(13) Guarantee fee;
(14) The term length for the credit being extended and the intervals between principal payments for each shipment to be made under the export sale;
(15) A statement indicating whether any portion of the export sale for which the exporter is applying for a payment guarantee is also being used as the basis for an application for participation in any of the following CCC or USDA export programs: Export Enhancement Program, Dairy Export Incentive Program, Sunflowerseed Oil Assistance Program, or Cottonseed Oil Assistance Program. The number of the Agreement assigned by USDA under one of these programs should be included, as applicable;
(16) Other information as requested by CCC or specified in Program Announcements and Notices to Participants, as applicable; and
(17) The exporter's statement, “ALL SECTION 1493.440 CERTIFICATIONS ARE BEING MADE IN THIS APPLICATION” which, when included in the application by the exporter, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.440.
(b) An application for a payment guarantee may be approved as submitted, approved with modifications agreed to by the exporter, or rejected by the GSM. In the event that the application is approved, the GSM will cause a payment guarantee to be issued in favor of the exporter. Such payment guarantee will become effective at the time specified in § 1493.450(b). If, based upon a price review, the unit sales price of the commodity does not fall within the prevailing commercial market level ranges, as determined by CCC, the application will not be approved.
(c) Ineligible exporter. An exporter will be ineligible to obtain a payment guarantee if such exporter:
(1) Directly or indirectly owns or controls the importer;
(2) Is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the importer; or
(3) Is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by a person(s) or entity(ies) which also owns or controls the importer.
§ 1493.440
Certification requirements for payment guarantee.
By providing the statement in § 1493.430(a)(17), the exporter is certifying that the information provided in the application is true and correct and, further, that all requirements set forth in this section have been or will be met. The exporter will be required to provide further explanation or documentation with regard to applications that do not include this statement. The exporter, in submitting an application for a payment guarantee and providing the statement set forth in § 1493.430(a)(17), certifies that:
(a) The agricultural commodity or product to be exported under the payment guarantee is a U.S. agricultural commodity as defined by § 1493.410(x).
(b) There have not been and will not be any corrupt payments or extra sales services or other items extraneous to the transaction provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the transaction, and that the transaction
complies with applicable United States law;
(c) If the agricultural commodity is vegetable oil or a vegetable oil product, that none of the agricultural commodity or product has been or will be used as a basis for a claim of a refund, as drawback, pursuant to section 313 of the Tariff Act of 1930, 19 U.S.C. 1313, of any duty, tax or fee imposed under Federal law on an imported commodity or product;
(d) No person or selling agency has been employed or retained to solicit or secure the payment guarantee, and that there is no agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee, except in the case of bona fide employees or bona fide established commercial or selling agencies maintained by the exporter for the purpose of securing business; and
(e) The information provided pursuant to § 1493.420 has not changed, the exporter still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.420, and the exporter will immediately notify CCC if there is a change of circumstances which would cause it to fail to meet such requirements. If the exporter breaches or violates these certifications with respect to a SCGP payment guarantee, CCC will have the right, notwithstanding any other rights provided under this subpart, to annul guarantee coverage for any commodities not yet exported and/or to proceed against the exporter.
[61 FR 33831, July 1, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 24561, May 6, 1997]
§ 1493.450
Payment guarantee.
(a)
CCC's obligation.
The payment guarantee will provide that CCC agrees to pay the exporter or the exporter's assignee an amount not to exceed the guaranteed value, plus eligible interest, in the event that the importer fails to pay under the importer obligation. unless CCC determines with respect to the particular transaction and claim that the guaranteed portion of the port value exceeded the prevailing U.S. market value for the same, or same type of agricultural commodity or product. In making this determination, CCC will adjust the prevailing U.S. market value for estimated freight and/or insurance costs if the export sale was made on a CFR or CIF basis. Payment by CCC will be in U.S. dollars.
(b)
Period of guarantee coverage.
The payment guarantee will apply to a credit period not exceeding 180 days beginning either on the date(s) of export(s) or from the date when interest begins to accrue whichever is earlier, and will continue during the credit term specified in the payment guarantee or amendments thereto. However, the payment guarantee becomes effective on the date(s) of export(s) of the agricultural commodities or products thereof specified in the exporter's application for a payment guarantee.
(c)
Terms of the CCC payment guarantee.
The terms of CCC's coverage will be set forth in the payment guarantee, as approved by CCC, and will include the provisions of this subpart, which may be supplemented by any Program Announcements and/or Notices to Participants in effect at the time the payment guarantee is approved by CCC.
(d)
Final date to export.
The final date to export shown on the payment guarantee will be one month, as determined by CCC, after the contractual deadline for shipping.
(e)
Reserve coverage for loading tolerances.
The exporter may apply for a payment guarantee and, if coverage is available, pay the guarantee fee, based at least on, the amount of the lower loading tolerance of the export sales contract; however, the exporter may also request that CCC reserve additional guarantee coverage to accommodate up to the amount of the upward loading tolerance specified in the export sales contract. If such additional guarantee coverage is available at the time of application and CCC determines to make such reservation, it will so indicate to the exporter. In the event that the exporter ships a quantity greater than the amount on which the guarantee fee was paid (
i.e.
, lower loading tolerance), it may obtain the additional coverage from CCC, up to the amount of the upward loading tolerance, by filing for an amendment to the payment guarantee, and by paying the additional amount of fee applicable. If such amendment to the payment guarantee is not filed with CCC by the exporter within 30 days after the date
of the last export against the sales contract, CCC may determine not to reserve the coverage originally set aside for the exporter.
(f)
Ineligible exports.
Commodities with a date of export prior to the date of receipt by CCC of the exporter's telephonic or written application for a payment guarantee, or with a date of export made after the final date for export shown on the payment guarantee or any amendments thereof, are ineligible for guarantee coverage under this subpart, except where it is determined by the GSM to be in the best interests of CCC to provide guarantee coverage on such commodities.
(g)
Foreign agricultural component.
CCC may approve payment guarantees under this subpart only in connection with sales of United States agricultural commodities as defined in § 1493.410(x). CCC may not provide guarantee coverage under this subpart on credit extended for the value of any foreign agricultural component.
(h)
Additional requirements.
The payment guarantee may contain such additional terms, conditions, and limitations as deemed necessary or desirable by the GSM. Such additional terms, conditions or qualifications, as stated in the payment guarantee are binding on the exporter or the exporter's assignee.
(i)
Amendments.
A request for an amendment of a payment guarantee may be submitted only by the exporter (with the concurrence of the assignee, if any). CCC will consider such a request only if the amendment sought is consistent with this subpart and any applicable Program Announcements and Notices to Participants. Amendments may include, but will not be limited to, a change in the credit period and an extension of time to export. Any amendment to the payment guarantee, particularly those that result in an increase in CCC's liability under the payment guarantee, may result in an increase in the guarantee fee. (Technical corrections or corrections of a clerical error which may be submitted by the exporter or the exporter's assignee are not viewed as amendments.)
§ 1493.460
Guarantee rates and fees.
(a)
Guarantee fee rates.
The current payment guarantee fee rate(s) will be available by Program Announcement.
(b)
Calculation of fee.
The guarantee fee will be computed by multiplying the guaranteed value by the guarantee fee rate.
(c)
Payment of fee.
The exporter shall remit, with his written application, the full amount of the guarantee fee. Applications will not be approved until the guarantee fee has been received by CCC. The exporter's check for the guarantee fee shall be made payable to CCC and mailed or delivered by courier to the office specified in the Contacts ­P/R.
(d)
Refunds of fee.
Guarantee fees paid in connection with approved applications will ordinarily not be refundable. CCC's approval of the application will be final and refund of the guarantee fee will not be made after approval unless the GSM determines that such refund will be in the best interest of CCC. If the application for a payment guarantee is not approved or is approved only for a part of the guarantee coverage requested, a full or pro rata refund of the fee remittance will be made.
§ 1493.470
Evidence of export.
(a)
Report of export.
The exporter is required to provide CCC an evidence of export report for each shipment made under the payment guarantee. This report must include the following:
(1) Payment guarantee number;
(2) Date of export;
(3) Exporter's sale number;
(4) Exported value;
(5) Quantity;
(6) A full description of the commodity exported;
(7) Unit sales price received for the commodity exported and the basis (e.g., FOB, CFR, CIF). Where the unit sales price at export differs from the unit sales price indicated in the exporter's application for a payment guarantee, the exporter is also required to submit a statement explaining the reason for the difference;
(8) Description and value of discounts and allowances, if any;
(9) Number of the Agreement assigned by USDA under any other program if any portion of the export sale
was also approved for participation in any of the following CCC or USDA export program: Export Enhancement Program, Dairy Export Incentive Program, Sunflowerseed Oil Assistance Program, or Cottonseed Oil Assistance Program; and
(10) The exporter's statement, “ALL SECTION 1493.480 CERTIFICATIONS ARE BEING MADE IN THIS EVIDENCE OF EXPORT” which, when included in the evidence of export by the exporter, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.480.
(b)
Time limit for submission of evidence of export.
The exporter must provide a written report to the office specified in the Contacts P/R within 60 calendar days if the export was by rail or truck; or 30 calendar days if the export was by any other carrier. The time period for filing a report of export will commence upon each date of export of the commodity covered under a payment guarantee. If the evidence of export report is not received by CCC within the time period for filing, the payment guarantee will become null and void only if and only to the extent that failure to make timely filing resulted, or would be likely to result, in:
(1) Significant financial harm to CCC;
(2) The undermining of an essential regulatory purpose of the program;
(3) Obstruction of the fair administration of the program; or
(4) A threat to the integrity of the program. The time limit for submission of an evidence of export report may be extended if such extension is determined by the GSM to be in the best interests of CCC.
(c)
Export sales reporting.
Exporters may have a mandatory reporting responsibility under section 602 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5712) for exports of wheat and wheat flour, feed grains, oilseeds, cotton, and other agricultural commodities and products thereof.
§ 1493.480
Certification requirements for the evidence of export.
By providing the statement contained in § 1493.470(a)(10), the exporter is certifying that the information provided in the evidence of export report is true and correct and, further, that all requirements set forth in this section have been or will be met. The exporter will be required to provide further explanation or documentation with regard to reports that do not include this statement. If the exporter breaches or violates these certifications with respect to a SCGP payment guarantee, CCC will have the right, notwithstanding any other rights provided under this subpart, to annul guarantee coverage for any commodities not yet exported and/or to proceed against the exporter. The exporter, in submitting the evidence of export and providing the statement set forth in § 1493.470(a)(10), certifies that:
(a) The agricultural commodity or product exported under the payment guarantee is a U.S. agricultural commodity as defined by § 1493.410(x).
(b) Agricultural commodities of the grade, quality and quantity called for in the exporter's sales contract with the importer have been exported to the country specified in the payment guarantee;
(c) There is an importer obligation as defined in § 1493.410(n) to cover the exported value of the commodity exported;
(d) There have not been and will not be any corrupt payments or extra sales services or other items extraneous to the transaction provided, financed, or guaranteed in connection with the transaction, and that the transaction complies with applicable United States law; and
(e) The information provided pursuant to § 1493.420 has not changed, the exporter still meets all of the qualification requirements of § 1493.420 and the exporter will immediately notify CCC if there is a change of circumstances which would cause it to fail to meet such requirements.
[61 FR 33831, July 1, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 24561, May 6, 1997]
§ 1493.490
Proof of entry.
(a)
Diversion.
The diversion of commodities covered by a SCGP payment guarantee to a country other than that shown on the payment guarantee is prohibited, unless expressly authorized by the GSM.
(b)
Records of proof of entry.
Exporters must obtain and maintain records of an official or customary commercial nature and grant authorized USDA officials access to such documents or records as may be necessary to demonstrate the arrival of the agricultural commodities exported in connection with the SCGP in the country that was the intended country of destination of such commodities. Records demonstrating proof of entry must be in English or be accompanied by a certified or other translation acceptable to CCC. Records acceptable to meet this requirement include an original certification of entry signed by a duly authorized customs or port official of the importing country, by the importer, by an agent or representative of the vessel or shipline which delivered the agricultural commodity to the importing country, or by a private surveyor in the importing country, or other documentation deemed acceptable by the GSM showing:
(1) That the agricultural commodity entered the importing country;
(2) The identification of the export carrier;
(3) The quantity of the agricultural commodity;
(4) The kind, type, grade and/or class of the agricultural commodity; and
(5) The date(s) and place(s) of unloading of the agricultural commodity in the importing country. (Records of proof of entry need not be submitted with a claim for loss, except as may be provided in § 1493.500(b)(4)(ii).)
§ 1493.500
Notice of default and claims for loss.
(a)
Notice of default.
If the importer fails to make payment pursuant to the terms of the importer obligation, the exporter or the exporter's assignee must submit a notice of default to CCC as soon as possible, but not later than 10 calendar days after the date that payment was due from the importer (the due date). A notice of default must be submitted in writing to the Treasurer, CCC, at the address specified in the Contacts P/R. If the exporter or the exporter's assignee fails to promptly notify CCC of defaults in accordance with this paragraph, CCC may make the payment guarantee null and void with respect to any payment(s) applicable to such default. This time limit may be extended only under extraordinary circumstances and if such extension is determined by the Controller, CCC, to be in the best interests of CCC. The notice of default must include:
(1) Payment guarantee number;
(2) Name of the country;
(3) Name of the defaulting importer;
(4) Due date;
(5) Total amount of the defaulted payment due, indicating separately the amounts for principal and interest;
(6) Date of importer's refusal to pay, if applicable; and
(7) Reason for importer's refusal to pay, if known.
(b)
Filing a claim for loss.
A claim for a loss by the exporter or the exporter's assignee will not be paid if it is made later than six months from the due date of the defaulted payment. A claim for loss must be submitted in writing to the Treasurer, CCC, at the address specified in the Contacts P/R. The claim for loss must include the following information and documents:
(1) Payment guarantee number;
(2) A certification that the scheduled payment has not been received;
(3) A certification of the amount of accrued interest in default, the date interest began to accrue, and the interest rate on the importer obligation applicable to the claim;
(4) A copy of each of the following documents, with a cover document containing a signed certification by the exporter or the exporter's assignee that each page of each document is a true and correct copy:
(i) The importer obligation;
(ii) Depending upon the method of shipment, the negotiable ocean carrier or intermodal bill(s) of lading signed by the shipping company with the onboard ocean carrier date for each shipment, the airway bill, or, if shipped by rail or truck, the entry certificate or similar document signed by an official of the importing country;
(iii)(A) The exporter's invoice showing, as applicable, the FAS, FOB, CFR or CIF values; or
(B) If there was an intervening purchaser, both the exporter's invoice to
the intervening purchaser and the intervening purchaser's invoice to the importer;
(iv) An instrument, in form and substance satisfactory to CCC, subrogating to CCC the respective rights of the exporter and the exporter's assignee, if applicable, to the amount of payment in default under the applicable export sale. The instrument must reference the applicable importer obligation; and
(v) A copy of the report(s) of export previously submitted by the exporter to CCC pursuant to § 1493.470(a).
(c)
Subsequent claims for defaults on installments.
If the initial claim is found in good order, the exporter or an exporter's assignee need only provide all of the required claims documents with the initial claim relating to a covered transaction. For subsequent claims relating to failure of the importer to make scheduled installments on the same export shipment, the exporter or the exporter's assignee need only submit to CCC a notice of such failure containing the information stated in paragraph (b) (1), (2), and (3) of this section; an instrument of subrogation as per paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, and including the date the original claim was filed with CCC.
§ 1493.510
Payment for loss.
(a)
Determination of CCC's liability.
Upon receipt in good order of the information and documents required under § 1493.500, CCC will determine whether or not a loss has occurred for which CCC is liable under the applicable payment guarantee, this subpart and any applicable supplemental Program Announcements and Notices to Participants. If CCC determines that it is liable to the exporter and/or the exporter's assignee, CCC will pay the exporter or the exporter's assignee in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Amount of CCC's liability.
Subject to a determination by CCC with respect to prevailing U.S. market value pursuant to § 1493.450(a) of this part, CCC's maximum liability for any claims for loss submitted with respect to any payment guarantee, not including any late interest payments due in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, will be limited to the lesser of:
(1) The guaranteed value as stated in the payment guarantee, plus eligible interest; or
(2) The guaranteed percentage (as indicated in the payment guarantee) of the exported value indicated in the evidence of export, plus eligible interest.
(c)
Late interest payment.
If a claim is not paid within one day of receipt of a claim which CCC has determined to be in good order, late interest will accrue in favor of the exporter or the exporter's assignee beginning with the first day after the day of receipt of a claim found by CCC to be in good order and continuing until and including the date that payment is made by CCC. Late interest will be paid on the guaranteed amount, as determined by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, and will be calculated based on the average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction as announced by the Department of Treasury as of the due date.
(d)
Accelerated payments.
CCC will pay claims only for losses on amounts not paid as scheduled. CCC will not pay claims for amounts due under an accelerated payment clause in the export sales contract or the importer obligation unless it is determined to be in the best interests of CCC by the Controller, CCC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CCC at its option may declare the entire amount of the unpaid balance, plus accrued interest, in default and make payment to the exporter or the exporter's assignee in addition to such other claimed amount as may be due from CCC.
(e)
Action against the assignee.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this subpart to the contrary, with regard to commodities covered by a payment guarantee, CCC will not, except pursuant to a determination under § 1493.450(a) of this part, hold the assignee responsible or take any action or raise any defense against the assignee for any action, omission, or statement by the exporter of which the assignee has no knowledge, provided that:
(1) The exporter complies with the reporting requirements under §§ 1493.470
and 1493.480, excluding post-export adjustments (
i.e.
, corrections to evidence of export reports); and
(2) The exporter or the exporter's assignee furnishes the statements and documents specified in § 1493.500.
§ 1493.520
Recovery of losses.
(a)
Notification.
Upon payment of loss to the exporter or the exporter's assignee, CCC will notify the importer of CCC's rights under the subrogation agreement to recover all moneys in default.
(b)
Receipt of monies.
(1) In the event that monies for a defaulted payment are recovered by the exporter or the exporter's assignee from the importer or any other source whatsoever, such monies shall be immediately paid to the Treasurer, CCC. If such monies are not received by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery by the exporter or the exporter's assignee, the exporter or the exporter's assignee will owe to CCC interest from the date of recovery to the date of receipt by CCC. This interest will be calculated based on the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and will accrue from such date to the date of payment by the exporter or the exporter's assignee to CCC. Such interest will be charged only on CCC's share of the recovery.
(2) If CCC recovers monies that should be applied to a payment guarantee for which a claim has been paid by CCC, CCC will pay the holder of the payment guarantee its pro rata share immediately, provided that the required information necessary for determining pro rata distribution has been furnished. If payment is not made by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery or 15 business days from receiving the required information for determining pro rata distribution, whichever is later, CCC will pay interest calculated on the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and such interest will accrue from such date to the date of payment by CCC. The interest will apply only to the portion of the recovery payable to the holder of the payment guarantee.
(c)
Allocation of recoveries.
Recoveries made by CCC from the importer, and recoveries received by CCC from the exporter, the exporter's assignee, or any other source whatsoever, will be allocated by CCC to the exporter or the exporter's assignee and to CCC on a pro rata basis determined by their respective interests in such recoveries. The respective interest of each party will be determined on a pro rata basis, based on the combined amount of principal and interest in default. Once CCC has paid out a particular claim under a payment guarantee, CCC pro rates any collections it receives and shares these collections proportionately with the holder of the guarantee until both CCC and the holder of the guarantee have been reimbursed in full. Appendix A to § 1493.520—Illustration of Pro Rata Allocation of Recoveries—provides an example of the methodology used by CCC in applying this paragraph (c).
(d)
Liabilities to CCC.
Notwithstanding any other terms of the payment guarantee, the exporter may be liable to CCC for any amounts paid by CCC under the payment guarantee when and if it is determined by CCC that the exporter has engaged in fraud, or has been or is in material breach of any contractual obligation, certification or warranty made by the exporter for the purpose of obtaining the payment guarantee or for fulfilling obligations under SCGP. Further, the exporter's assignee may be liable to CCC for any amounts paid by CCC under the payment guarantee when and if it is determined by CCC that the exporter's assignee has engaged in fraud or otherwise violated program requirements.
(e)
Good faith.
The violation by an exporter of the certifications in §§ 1493.440(b) and 1493.480(d) or the failure of an exporter to comply with the provisions of §§ 1493.490 or 1493.530(e) will not affect the validity of any payment guarantee with respect to an assignee which had no knowledge of such violation or failure to comply at the time such exporter applied for the payment guarantee or at the time of assignment of the payment guarantee.
(f)
Cooperation in recoveries.
Upon payment by CCC of a claim to the exporter
or the exporter's assignee, the exporter or the exporter's assignee will cooperate with CCC to effect recoveries from the importer.

# Appendix A to § 1493.520—Illustration of Pro Rata Allocation of Recoveries
The following example illustrates CCC's policy, as set forth in § 1493.520(c), regarding pro rata sharing of recoveries made for claims filed under the SCGP. A typical case might be as follows:
1. The U.S. exporter enters into a $200,000, 180 day credit arrangement with the importer calling for two equal payments of principal and two equal payments of interest at a rate of 10 percent per annum and a penalty interest rate of 12 percent per annum (basis 360 days) on overdue amounts until the overdue amount is paid. (Basis for interest calculation may be 360 or 365 days.)
2. The importer fails to make the final principal payment of $100,000 and an interest payment of $2,500.00 (10% per annum for 90 days on $100,000), both due on January 31.
3. On February 10, the U.S. exporter files a claim in good order with CCC.
4. CCC's guarantee states that CCC's maximum liability is limited to 60 percent of the principal amount due ($60,000) and interest at a rate of 8 percent per annum (basis 365 days) on 60 percent of the principal outstanding ($1,183.56) (8% per annum for 90 days on $60,000). (CCC's basis for interest calculation is 365 days.)
5. CCC pays the claim on February 22.
6. The average investment rate of the most recent 91-day Treasury Bill auction average which has been published by the Department of Treasury in effect on the date of nonpayment by CCC (January 31) is 7 percent. (CCC's late interest rate.)

# Computation of Obligations
Using the above case, CCC's payment to the holder of the payment guarantee would be computed as follows:
1. CCC's Obligation under the Payment Guarantee:
(a) Principal coverage—(60% $100,000)
$60,000.00
(b) Interest coverage—(8% per annum for 90 days on $60,000, basis 365 days)
1,183.56
$61,183.56
(c) Late interest due from CCC (7% per annum for 11 days on $61,183.56, basis 365 days)
129.07
(d) Amount paid by CCC on February 22
$61,312.63
2. Importer's obligation under the importer obligation:
(a) Principal due January 31
$100,000.00
Interest due January 31 (10% per annum for 90 days on $100,000, basis 360 days)
2,500.00
Amount owed by importer as of January 31
$102,500.00
(b) Penalty interest due (12% per annum for 22 days on $102,500.00, basis 360 days)
751.67
(c) Amount owed by importer as of February 22
$103,251.67
3. Amount of importer's obligation not covered by CCC's payment guarantee: $41,939.04 ($103,251.67-$61,312.63).

# Computation of Pro Rata Sharing in Recovery of Losses
In establishing each party's respective interest in any recovery of losses, the total amount due under the importer obligation would be determined as of the date the claim is paid by CCC (February 22). Using the above example in which the amount owed by the importer is $103,251.67, CCC would be entitled to 59.38 percent ($61,312.63 divided by $103,251.67) and the holder of the payment guarantee would be entitled to 40.62 percent ($41,939.04 divided by $103,251.67) of any recoveries of losses after settlement of the claim. Since in this example, the losses were recovered after the claim has been paid by CCC, § 1493.520(b) would apply.
§ 1493.530
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
Assignment.
(1) The exporter may assign the proceeds which are, or may become, payable by CCC under a payment guarantee or the right to such proceeds only to a financial institution in the U.S. The assignment must cover all amounts payable under the payment guarantee not already paid, may not be made to more than one party,
and may not, unless approved in advance by CCC, be:
(i) Made to one party acting for two or more parties; or
(ii) Subject to further assignment.
(2) An original and two copies of the written notice of assignment signed by the parties thereto must be filed by the assignee with the Treasurer, CCC, at the address specified in the Contacts P/R.
(3) Receipt of the notice of assignment will ordinarily be acknowledged to the exporter and its assignee in writing by an officer of CCC. In cases where a financial institution is determined to be ineligible to receive an assignment, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, CCC will provide notice thereof, to the financial institution and to the exporter issued the payment guarantee, in lieu of an acknowledgment of assignment.
(4) The name and address of the assignee must be included on the written notice of assignment.
(b)
Ineligibility of financial institutions to receive an assignment.
A financial institution will be ineligible to receive an assignment of proceeds which may become payable under a payment guarantee if, at the time of assignment, such financial institution:
(1) Is not in sound financial condition, as determined by the Treasurer of CCC;
(2) Owns or controls the entity issuing the importer obligation; or
(3) Is owned or controlled by an entity that owns or controls the entity issuing the importer obligation.
(c)
Ineligibility of financial institutions to receive proceeds.
A financial institution will be ineligible to receive proceeds payable under a payment guarantee approved by CCC if such financial institution:
(1) At the time of assignment of a payment guarantee, is not in sound financial condition, as determined by the Treasurer of CCC;
(2) Owns or controls the entity issuing the importer obligation; or
(3) Is owned or controlled by an entity that owns or controls the entity issuing the importer obligation.
(d)
Alternative satisfaction of payment guarantees.
CCC may, with the agreement of the exporter (or if the right to proceeds payable under the payment guarantee has been assigned, with the agreement of the exporter's assignee), establish procedures, terms and/or conditions for the satisfaction of CCC's obligations under a payment guarantee other than those provided for in this subpart if CCC determines that those alternative procedures, terms, and/or conditions are appropriate in rescheduling the debts arising out of any transaction covered by the payment guarantee and would not result in CCC paying more than the amount of CCC's obligation.
(e)
Maintenance of records and access to premises.
(1) For a period of five years after the date of expiration of the coverage of a payment guarantee, the exporter or the exporter's assignee, as applicable, must maintain and make available all records pertaining to sales and deliveries of and extension of credit for agricultural commodities exported in connection with a payment guarantee, including those records generated and maintained by agents, intervening purchasers, and related companies involved in special arrangements with the exporter. The Secretary of Agriculture and the Comptroller General of the United States, through their authorized representatives, must be given full and complete access to the premises of the exporter or the exporter's assignee, as applicable, during regular business hours from the effective date of the payment guarantee until the expiration of such five-year period to inspect, examine, audit, and make copies of the exporter's, exporter's assignee's, agent's, intervening purchaser's, or related company's books, records and accounts concerning transactions relating to the payment guarantee, including, but not limited to, financial records and accounts pertaining to sales, inventory, processing, and administrative and incidental costs, both normal and unforeseen. During such period, the exporter or the exporter's assignee may be required to make available to the Secretary of Agriculture or the Comptroller General of the United States, through their authorized representatives, records that pertain to transactions conducted outside the program, if, in the opinion of the GSM, such records would pertain
directly to the review of transactions undertaken by the exporter in connection with the payment guarantee.
(2) The exporter must maintain the proof of entry required by § 1493.490(b), and must provide access to such documentation if requested by the Secretary of Agriculture or his authorized representative for the five-year period specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Responsibility of program participants.
It is the responsibility of all program participants to review, and fully acquaint themselves with, all regulations, Program Announcements, and Notices to Participants issued pursuant to this subpart. Applicants for payment guarantees are hereby on notice that they will be bound by any terms contained in applicable Program Announcements or Notices to Participants issued prior to the date of approval of a payment guarantee.
(g)
Submission of documents by principal officers.
All required submissions, including certifications, applications, reports, or requests (
i.e.
, requests for amendments), by exporters or exporters' assignees under this subpart must be signed by a principal or officer of the exporter or exporter's assignee or their authorized designee(s). In cases where the designee is acting on behalf of the principal or the officer, the signature must be accompanied by: Wording indicating the delegation of authority or, in the alternative, by a certified copy of the delegation of authority; and the name and title of the authorized person or officer. Further, the exporter or exporter's assignee must ensure that all information/reports required under these regulations are submitted within the required time limits. If requested in writing, CCC will acknowledge receipt of a submission by the exporter or the exporter's assignee. If acknowledgment of receipt is requested, the exporter or exporter's assignee must submit an extra copy of each document and a stamped self-addressed envelope for return by U.S. mail. If courier services are desired for the return receipt, the exporter or exporter's assignee must also submit a self-addressed courier service order which includes the recipient's billing code for such service.
(h)
Officials not to benefit.
No member of or delegate to Congress, or Resident Commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of the payment guarantee or to any benefit that may arise therefrom, but this provision shall not be construed to extend to the payment guarantee if made with a corporation for its general benefit.
(i)
OMB control number assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information requirements contained in this part (7 CFR part 1493, subpart D) have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB Control Number 0551-0037.
PARTS 1494-1495 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1499

# PART 1499—FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM
Sec.
1499.1
Purpose and applicability.
1499.2
Definitions.
1499.3
Eligibility and conflicts of interest.
1499.4
Application process.
1499.5
Agreements.
1499.6
Payments.
1499.7
Transportation of donated commodities.
1499.8
Entry, handling, and labeling of donated commodities and notification requirements.
1499.9
Damage to or loss of donated commodities.
1499.10
Claims for damage to or loss of donated commodities.
1499.11
Use of donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, and program income.
1499.12
Monitoring and evaluation requirements.
1499.13
Reporting and record keeping requirements.
1499.14
Subrecipients.
1499.15
Noncompliance with an agreement.
1499.16
Suspension and termination of agreements.
1499.17
Opportunities to object and appeals.
1499.18
Audit requirements.
1499.19
Paperwork Reduction Act.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1736o; and 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1499.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a) This part sets forth the general terms and conditions governing the award of donated commodities and funds by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) to recipients under the Food for Progress (FFPr) Program. Under the FFPr Program, recipients use the donated commodities, proceeds from any sale of such commodities, CCC-provided funds, and program income to implement a project in a foreign country pursuant to an agreement with CCC. The Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) administers the FFPr Program on behalf of CCC.
(b)(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR 400.1, USDA adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as USDA policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.
(2) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to the FFPr Program, except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this section.
(c) In addition to the provisions of this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the FFPr Program, to the extent that such regulations do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part. The provisions of the CCC Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714
et seq.
) and any other statutory or regulatory provisions that are generally applicable to CCC apply to the FFPr Program.
(d) In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1736o(b)(5), assistance under the FFPr Program may be provided to governments of emerging agricultural countries, intergovernmental organizations, private voluntary organizations, nonprofit agricultural organizations or cooperatives, nongovernmental organizations, colleges or universities, and any other private entities.
(e) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and the provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, do not apply to an award by CCC under the FFPr Program to a recipient that is a foreign public entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, and, therefore, they do not apply to a foreign government or an intergovernmental organization.
(f)(1) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all awards by CCC under the FFPr Program to all recipients that are private voluntary organizations, including a private voluntary organization that is a foreign organization, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1; nonprofit agricultural organizations or cooperatives, including a nonprofit agricultural organization or cooperative that is a foreign organization; nongovernmental organizations, including a nongovernmental organization that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization; colleges or universities; or other private entities, including a private entity that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization.
(2) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all subawards to all subrecipients under this part, except in cases:
(i) Where the subrecipient is a foreign public entity; or
(ii) Where CCC determines that the application of these provisions to a subaward to a subrecipient that is a foreign organization would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government or would not be in the best interest of the United States.
(g)(1) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies only to awards by CCC to recipients that are private voluntary organizations, agricultural organizations or cooperatives, nongovernmental organizations, colleges or universities, or other private entities, but that are not for-profit entities or foreign organizations.
(2) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to
subawards to subrecipients under this part, except where the subrecipient is a for-profit entity, foreign public entity, or foreign organization.
(3) Audit requirements for recipients and subrecipients that are for-profit entities or foreign organizations are set forth in § 1499.18.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45058, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53365, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.2
Definitions.
These are definitions for terms used in this part. The definitions in 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented in 2 CFR part 400, are also applicable to this part, with the exception that, if a term that is defined in this section is defined differently in 2 CFR part 200 or part 400, the definition in this section will apply to such term as used in this part.
Activity
means a discrete undertaking within a project to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, that is specified in an agreement and is intended to fulfill a specific objective of the agreement.
Agreement
means a legally binding grant or cooperative agreement entered into between CCC and a recipient to implement a project under the FFPr Program.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation, an agency and instrumentality of the United States within USDA, and includes any official of the United States delegated the responsibility to act on behalf of CCC.
CCC-provided funds
means U.S. dollars provided under an agreement to a recipient, or through a subagreement to a subrecipient, for expenses authorized in the agreement, such as expenses for the internal transportation, storage and handling of the donated commodities; expenses involved in the administration, monitoring, and evaluation of the activities under the agreement; and technical assistance related to the monetization of the donated commodities.
College
or
university
means an educational institution in any State which admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate; is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education; provides an educational program for which a bachelor's degree or any other higher degree is awarded; is a public or other nonprofit institution; and is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association. The terms include a research foundation maintained by such a college or university. As used in this definition, State will have the meaning given in 7 U.S.C. 3103(16).
Commodities
means agricultural commodities, or products of agricultural commodities, that are produced in the United States.
Cooperative
means a private sector organization whose members own and control the organization and share in its services and its profits and that provides business services and outreach in cooperative development for its membership.
Cost sharing or matching
means the portion of project expenses, or necessary goods and services provided to carry out a project, not paid or acquired with Federal funds. The term may include cash or in-kind contributions provided by recipients, subrecipients, foreign public entities, foreign organizations, or private donors.
Disburse
means to make a payment to liquidate an obligation.
Donated commodities
means the commodities donated by CCC to a recipient under an agreement. The term may include donated commodities that are used to produce a further processed product for use under the agreement.
FAS
means the Foreign Agricultural Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
FFPr Program
means the Food for Progress Program.
Nongovernmental organization
means an organization that works at the local level to solve development problems in a foreign country in which the organization is located, except that the term does not include an organization that is primarily an agency or instrumentality of the government of the foreign country.
Private voluntary organization
means a not-for-profit, nongovernmental organization (in the case of a United States organization, an organization that is
exempt from Federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that receives funds from private sources, voluntary contributions of money, staff time, or in-kind support from the public, and that is engaged in or is planning to engage in voluntary, charitable, or development assistance activities (other than religious activities).
Program income
means interest earned on proceeds from the sale of donated commodities, as well as funds received by a recipient or subrecipient as a direct result of carrying out an approved activity under an agreement. The term includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under a Federal award, the sale of items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Program income does not include any of the following: proceeds from the sale of donated commodities; CCC-provided funds; interest earned on CCC-provided funds; funds provided for cost sharing or matching contributions, refunds, rebates, credits, or discounts; or interest earned on funds provided for cost sharing or matching contributions, refunds, rebates, credits, or discounts.
Project
means the totality of the activities to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, to fulfill the objectives of an agreement.
Recipient
means an entity that enters into an agreement with CCC and receives donated commodities and CCC-provided funds to carry out activities under the agreement. The term recipient does not include a subrecipient.
Sale proceeds
means funds received by a recipient from the sale of donated commodities.
Subrecipient
means an entity that enters into a subagreement with a recipient for the purpose of implementing in the target country activities described in an agreement. The term does not include an individual that is a beneficiary under the agreement.
Target country
means the foreign country in which activities are implemented under an agreement.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions
means cost sharing or matching contributions specifically pledged on a voluntary basis by an applicant or recipient, which become binding as part of an agreement. Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions may be provided in the form of cash or in-kind contributions.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45059, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53365, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.3
Eligibility and conflicts of interest.
(a) A private voluntary organization, a nonprofit agricultural organization or cooperative, a nongovernmental organization, a college or university, or any other private entity is eligible to submit an application under this part to become a recipient under the Food for Progress Program. CCC will set forth specific eligibility information, including any factors or priorities that will affect the eligibility of an applicant or application for selection, in the full text of the applicable notice of funding opportunity posted on the U.S. Government website for grant opportunities.
(b) Applicants, recipients, and subrecipients must comply with policies established by CCC pursuant to 2 CFR 400.2(a), and with the requirements in 2 CFR 400.2(b), regarding conflicts of interest.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45059, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53365, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.4
Application process.
(a) An applicant seeking to enter into an agreement with CCC must submit an application, in accordance with this section, that sets forth its proposal to carry out activities under the FFPr Program in a proposed target country(ies). An application must contain the items specified in paragraph (b) of this section as well as any other items required by the notice of funding opportunity and must be submitted electronically to CCC at the address set forth in the notice of funding opportunity.
(b) An applicant must include the following items in its application:
(1) A completed Form SF-424, which is a standard application for Federal assistance;
(2) An introduction and a strategic analysis, which includes a description of opportunities for lasting impact and sustainable benefits, as specified in the notice of funding opportunity;
(3) A plan of operation that contains the elements specified in the notice of funding opportunity;
(4) A summary line item budget and a detailed budget narrative that indicate:
(i) The amounts of any sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions that the applicant proposes to use to fund:
(A) Administrative costs;
(B) Inland and internal transportation, storage and handling (ITSH) costs; and
(C) Activity costs;
(ii) Where applicable, how the applicant's indirect cost rate will be applied to each type of expense; and
(iii) The amount of funding that will be provided to each proposed subrecipient under the agreement;
(5) A project-level results framework that outlines the changes that the applicant expects to accomplish through the proposed project and is based on the FFPr Program-level results framework, as set forth in the notice of funding opportunity;
(6) Unless otherwise specified in the notice of funding opportunity, an evaluation plan that describes the proposed design, methodology, and time frame of the project's evaluation activities, and how the applicant intends to manage these activities, and that will include a baseline study, midterm evaluation, final evaluation, and any applicable special studies; and
(7) Any additional required items set forth in the notice of funding opportunity.
(c) Unless an exception in 2 CFR 25.110 applies, each applicant is required to:
(1) Be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) before submitting its application;
(2) Provide a valid unique entity identifier in its application; and
(3) Maintain an active SAM registration, in accordance with 2 CFR part 25, with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by a Federal awarding agency.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 53365, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.5
Agreements.
(a) After CCC approves an application by an applicant, CCC will negotiate an agreement with the applicant. The agreement will set forth the obligations of CCC and the recipient.
(b) The agreement will include the general information required in 2 CFR 200.211(b), as applicable.
(c) The agreement will incorporate general terms and conditions, pursuant to 2 CFR 200.211(c), as applicable.
(d) To the extent that this information is not already included in the agreement pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the agreement will also include the following:
(1) The kind, quantity, and use of the donated commodities and an estimated commodity call forward schedule, with the month and year indicated for each expected commodity shipment;
(2) A plan of operation, which will include the following:
(i) The objectives to be accomplished under the project;
(ii) A detailed description of each activity to be implemented;
(iii) The target country(ies) and the areas of the target country(ies) in which the activities will be implemented;
(iv) The methods and criteria for selecting the beneficiaries of the activities;
(v) Any contributions for cost sharing or matching, including cash and non-cash contributions, that the recipient expects to receive from non-CCC sources that:
(A) Are critical to the implementation of the activities; or
(B) Enhance the implementation of the activities;
(vi) Any subrecipient that will be involved in the implementation of the activities, and the criteria for selecting
a subrecipient that has not yet been identified;
(vii) Any other governmental or nongovernmental entities that will be involved in the implementation of the activities; and
(viii) Any processing, packaging, or repackaging of the donated commodities that will take place prior to their distribution, sale, or barter by the recipient;
(3) A budget, which will set forth the maximum amounts of sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions that may be used for each line item, as well as other applicable budget requirements;
(4) Performance goals for the agreement, including a list of results, with long-term benefits where applicable, to be achieved by the activities; indicators, targets, and baseline data; and information about how performance will be assessed, including the timing and scope of expected performance; and
(5) Any additional provisions specified by CCC during the negotiation of the agreement.
(e) The agreement will also include specific terms and conditions, and certifications and representations, including the following, as applicable:
(1) The agreement will prohibit the sale or transshipment of the donated commodities by the recipient to a country not specified in the agreement, or the use of the donated commodities for other than domestic purposes, for as long as the recipient has title to such donated commodities;
(2) The recipient will assert that it has taken action to ensure that any donated commodities that will be distributed to beneficiaries will be imported and distributed free from all customs, duties, tolls, and taxes. The recipient must submit information to CCC to support this assertion;
(3) The recipient will assert that, to the best of its knowledge, the importation and distribution of the donated commodities in the target country will not result in a substantial disincentive to or interference with domestic production or marketing in that country. The recipient must submit information to CCC to support this assertion;
(4) The recipient will assert that, to the best of its knowledge, any sale or barter of the donated commodities will not displace or interfere with any sales of United States commodities that would otherwise be made to or within the target country. The recipient must submit information to CCC to support this assertion; and
(5) The recipient will assert that adequate transportation and storage facilities will be available in the target country at the time of the arrival of the donated commodities to prevent spoilage or waste of the donated commodities. The recipient must submit information to CCC to support this assertion.
(f) CCC may enter into a multicountry agreement in which donated commodities are delivered to one country and activities are carried out in another.
(g) CCC may provide donated commodities and CCC-provided funds under a multiyear agreement contingent upon the availability of commodities and funds.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45059, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53365, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.6
Payments.
(a) If a recipient arranges for transportation in accordance with § 1499.7(b)(2), CCC will, as specified in the agreement, pay the costs of such transportation to the ocean carrier or to the recipient. The recipient must, as specified in the agreement, submit to CCC, arrange to be submitted to CCC, or maintain on file and make available to CCC, the following documents:
(1) The original, or a true copy, of each on board bill of lading indicating the freight rate and signed by the originating ocean carrier;
(2) For all non-containerized cargoes:
(i) A signed copy of the Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS) Official Stowage Examination Certificate;
(ii) A signed copy of the National Cargo Bureau Certificate of Readiness; and
(iii) A signed copy of the Certificate of Loading issued by the National Cargo Bureau or a similar qualified independent surveyor;
(3) For all containerized cargoes, a copy of the FGIS Container Condition Inspection Certificate;
(4) A signed copy of the U.S. Food Aid Booking Note or charter party covering ocean transportation of the cargo;
(5) In the case of charter shipments, a signed notice of arrival at the first discharge port, unless CCC has determined that circumstances that could not have been reasonably anticipated or controlled (force majeure) have prevented the ocean carrier's arrival at the first port of discharge; and
(6) A request for payment of freight, survey costs other than at load port, and other expenses approved by CCC.
(b) If the agreement specifies that some or all of the documents listed in paragraph (a) of this section will be submitted to CCC, then CCC will not render payment for transportation services until it has received all of the specified documents.
(c) If a recipient arranges for transportation in accordance with § 1499.7(b)(2), and the recipient uses a freight forwarder, the recipient must ensure that the freight forwarder is registered in the SAM and require the freight forwarder to submit the documents specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The recipient will ensure that the total commission or fees paid to intermediaries in the transportation procurement process will not exceed two and a half percent of the total transportation costs.
(d) In no case will CCC provide payment to a recipient for demurrage costs or pay demurrage to any other entity.
(e) If CCC has agreed to be responsible for the costs of transporting, storing, and distributing the donated commodities from the designated discharge port or the point of entry into the target country, and if the recipient will bear or has borne any of these costs, in accordance with the agreement, CCC will either provide an advance payment or a reimbursement to the recipient in the amount of such costs, in the manner set forth in the agreement.
(f) If the agreement authorizes the payment of CCC-provided funds, CCC will generally provide the funds to the recipient on an advance payment basis, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.305(b). In addition, the following procedures will apply to advance payments:
(1) A recipient may request advance payments of CCC-provided funds, up to the total amount specified in the agreement. When making an advance payment request, a recipient must provide, for each agreement for which it is requesting an advance, total expenditures to date; an estimate of expenses to be covered by the advance; total advances previously requested, if any; the amount of cash on hand from the preceding advance; and, if necessary, a request to roll over any unused funds from the preceding advance to the current request period. The advance payment request must take into account any program income earned since the preceding advance.
(2) Whenever possible, a recipient should consolidate advance payment requests to cover anticipated cash needs for all food assistance program awards made by CCC to the recipient. A recipient may request advance payments with no minimum time required between requests.
(3) A recipient must minimize the amount of time that elapses between the transfer of funds by CCC and the disbursement of funds by the recipient. A recipient must fully disburse funds from the preceding advance before it submits a new advance request for the same agreement, with the exception that the recipient may request to retain the balance of any funds that have not been disbursed and roll it over into a new advance request if the new advance request is made within 90 days after the preceding advance was made.
(4) CCC will review all requests to roll over funds from the preceding advance that have not been disbursed and make a decision based on the merits of the request. CCC will consider factors such as the amount of funding that a recipient is requesting to roll over, the length of time that the recipient has been in possession of the funds, any unforeseen or extenuating circumstances, the recipient's history of performance, and findings from recent financial audits or compliance reviews.
(5) CCC will not approve any request for an advance or rollover of funds if the most recent financial report, as
specified in the agreement, is past due, or if any required report, as specified in any open agreement between the recipient and CCC or FAS, is more than three months in arrears.
(6)(i) A recipient must return to CCC any funds advanced by CCC that have not been disbursed as of the 91st day after the advance was made; provided, however, that paragraphs (f)(6)(ii) and (iii) of this section will apply if the recipient submits a request to CCC before that date to roll over the funds into a new advance.
(ii) If a recipient submits a request to roll over funds into a new advance, and CCC approves the rollover of funds, such funds will be considered to have been advanced on the date that the recipient receives the approval notice from CCC, for the purposes of complying with the requirement in paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section.
(iii) If a recipient submits a request to roll over funds into a new advance, and CCC does not approve the rollover of some or all of the funds, such funds must be returned to CCC.
(iv) If a recipient must return funds to CCC in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, the recipient must return the funds by the later of five business days after the 91st day after the funds were advanced, or five business days after the date on which the recipient receives notice from CCC that it has denied the recipient's request to roll over the funds; provided, however, that CCC may specify a different date for the return of funds in a written communication to the recipient.
(7) Except as may otherwise be provided in the agreement, a recipient must deposit and maintain in an insured bank account located in the United States all funds advanced by CCC. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or CCC determines that this requirement would constitute an undue burden. A recipient will not be required to maintain a separate bank account for advance payments of CCC-provided funds. However, a recipient must be able to separately account for funds received, obligated, and expended under each agreement. When the recipient requires the use of funds that have been advanced by CCC to pay approved expenses under this agreement, the recipient may transfer the funds from the bank account located in the United States to a bank account in the target country.
(8) A recipient may retain, for administrative purposes, up to $500 per Federal fiscal year of any interest earned on funds advanced under an agreement. The recipient must remit to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services any additional interest earned during the Federal fiscal year on such funds, in accordance with the procedures in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(9).
(g) If a recipient is required to pay funds to CCC in connection with an agreement, the recipient must make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45059, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53365, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.7
Transportation of donated commodities.
(a) Shipments of donated commodities are subject to the requirements of 46 U.S.C. 55305, regarding carriage on U.S.-flag vessels.
(b) Transportation to the designated discharge port or point of entry of donated commodities, and other goods such as bags that may be provided by CCC under the FFPr Program, will be arranged for under a specific agreement in the manner determined by CCC. Such transportation will be arranged for by:
(1) CCC in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in 48 CFR chapter 1, the Agriculture Acquisition Regulation (AGAR) in 48 CFR chapter 4, and directives issued by the Director, Office of Contracting and Procurement, USDA; or
(2) The recipient, with payment by CCC, in the manner specified in the agreement.
(c) A recipient that is responsible for transportation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section must declare in the transportation contract the point at which the ocean carrier will take custody of donated commodities to be transported.
(d) A recipient may only use the services of a transportation company that is legally operating in the country in
which it will be transporting the donated commodities and that would not have a conflict of interest in transporting such donated commodities.
(e) A recipient that arranges for transportation in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may only use the services of a freight forwarder that is licensed by the Federal Maritime Commission and that would not have a conflict of interest in carrying out the freight forwarder duties. To assist CCC in determining whether there is a potential conflict of interest, the recipient must submit to CCC a certification indicating that the freight forwarder:
(1) Is not engaged in, and will not engage in, supplying commodities or furnishing ocean transportation or ocean transportation-related services for commodities provided under any FFPr Program agreement to which the recipient is a party; and
(2) Is not affiliated with the recipient and has not made arrangements to give or receive any payment, kickback, or illegal benefit in connection with its selection as an agent of the recipient.
(f) A recipient will be responsible for arranging and paying for any transportation of the donated commodities after their arrival at the designated discharge port or point of entry for as long as the recipient has title to such donated commodities, except as may otherwise be provided in the agreement.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 53366, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.8
Entry, handling, and labeling of donated commodities and notification requirements.
(a) A recipient must make all necessary arrangements for receiving the donated commodities in the target country, including obtaining appropriate approvals for entry and transit. The recipient must make arrangements with the target country government for all donated commodities that will be distributed to beneficiaries to be imported and distributed free from all customs duties, tolls, and taxes. A recipient is encouraged to make similar arrangements, where possible, with the government of a country where donated commodities to be sold or bartered are delivered.
(b) A recipient must, as provided in the agreement, arrange for transporting, storing, and distributing the donated commodities from the designated point and time where title to the donated commodities passes to the recipient, except that CCC will arrange for transporting the donated commodities in accordance with § 1499.7(b)(1) when CCC determines that it is applicable.
(c) A recipient must maintain the donated commodities in good condition from the time that it takes possession of such donated commodities at the designated discharge port, the point of entry, or the point of receipt from the originating carrier until their distribution, sale or barter.
(d) A recipient must comply with the following requirements in this paragraph, and the requirements specified in the agreement, regarding the acknowledgment of funding by USDA, the use of the USDA logo, and communications to the public:
(1) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:
(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;
(ii) Contains the name of the donated commodities;
(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities are furnished by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture; and
(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, exchanged or bartered.
(2) If a recipient arranges for the processing and repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:
(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;
(ii) Contains the name of the processed product;
(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product was made with commodities furnished by the Food for Progress Program of the
United States Department of Agriculture; and
(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product must not be sold, exchanged or bartered.
(3) If a recipient distributes donated commodities that are not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the donated commodities, a statement indicating that the donated commodities are being furnished by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, exchanged, or bartered.
(4) A recipient must ensure that signs are displayed at all activity implementation and commodity distribution sites to inform beneficiaries that funding for the project was provided by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture.
(5) A recipient must ensure that all communications to the public relating to the project, the activities, or the donated commodities, whether made through print, broadcast, digital, or other media, include a statement acknowledging that funding was provided by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture. This includes project descriptions, fact sheets, signs, websites, press releases, social media, videos, reports, and other communications to the public. A recipient must also ensure that the USDA logo is used in communications to the public in accordance with the agreement.
(e)(1) At the request of a recipient, CCC may waive compliance with one or more of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section. A recipient may submit a written request for a waiver at any time after the agreement has been signed. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the recipient must comply with the requirement(s) while awaiting a determination by CCC regarding its waiver request.
(2) If a recipient determines that compliance with one or more of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section poses an imminent threat of injury, loss of life, or destruction of property in the target country, the recipient must submit a request to CCC for a waiver of such requirement(s), with an explanation of the safety or security risk, as soon as possible. The recipient will not have to comply with such requirement(s) while awaiting a determination by CCC regarding its waiver request.
(f) In exceptional circumstances, CCC may, on its own initiative, waive one or more of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section for programmatic reasons.
[87 FR 53366, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.9
Damage to or loss of donated commodities.
(a) CCC will be responsible for the donated commodities prior to the transfer of title to the donated commodities to the recipient. The recipient will be responsible for the donated commodities while the recipient has title to the donated commodities. The title will transfer as specified in the agreement.
(b)(1) A recipient must inform CCC, in the manner set forth in the agreement, of any damage to or loss of donated commodities that occurs while the recipient has title to the donated commodities. The recipient must comply with the following procedures when reporting such damage to or loss of donated commodities:
(i) If the amount of the damage or loss is estimated to exceed $20,000, the recipient must notify CCC in writing immediately after becoming aware of such damage or loss and, in this notification, provide detailed information about the circumstances surrounding such damage or loss, the quantity of damaged or lost donated commodities, and the amount of the damage or loss;
(ii) If the amount of the damage or loss is estimated to exceed $1,000 but not to exceed $20,000, the recipient must notify CCC in writing of the damage or loss within 15 days after the date that the recipient becomes aware of it and then provide detailed information about the damage or loss in the first report required to be filed under § 1499.13(c) that is due after the date that the recipient becomes aware of such damage or loss; and
(iii) If the amount of the damage or loss is estimated not to exceed $1,000,
the recipient must notify CCC, and provide detailed information about the damage or loss, in the first report required to be filed under § 1499.13(c) that is due after the date that the recipient becomes aware of such damage or loss.
(2) The recipient must take all steps necessary to protect its interests and the interests of CCC with respect to any damage to or loss of the donated commodities that occurs while the recipient has title to the donated commodities.
(c) A recipient will be responsible for arranging for an independent cargo surveyor to inspect the donated commodities upon discharge from the ocean carrier and prepare a survey or outturn report. The report must show the quantity and condition of the donated commodities discharged from the ocean carrier and must indicate the most likely cause of any damage noted in the report. The report must also indicate the time and place when the survey took place. All discharge surveys must be conducted contemporaneously with the discharge of the ocean carrier, unless CCC determines that failure to do so was justified under the circumstances. For donated commodities shipped on a through bill of lading, the recipient must also obtain a delivery survey. All surveys obtained by the recipient must, to the extent practicable, be conducted jointly by the surveyor, the recipient, and the ocean carrier, and the survey report must be signed by all three parties. The recipient must obtain a copy of each discharge or delivery survey report within 45 days after the completion of the survey. The recipient must make each such report available to CCC upon request, or in the manner specified in the agreement. CCC will reimburse the recipient for the reasonable costs of these services, as determined by CCC.
(d) If donated commodities are damaged or lost during the time that they are in the care of the ocean carrier:
(1) The recipient must ensure that any reports, narrative chronology, or other commentary prepared by the independent cargo surveyor, and any such documentation prepared by a port authority, stevedoring service, or customs official, or an official of the transit or target country government or the transportation company, are provided to CCC;
(2) The recipient must provide to CCC the names and addresses of any individuals known to be present at the time of discharge or unloading, or during the survey, who can verify the quantity of damaged or lost donated commodities;
(3) If the damage or loss occurred with respect to a bulk shipment on an ocean carrier, the recipient must ensure that the independent cargo surveyor:
(i) Observes the discharge of the cargo;
(ii) Reports on discharging methods, including scale type, calibrations and any other factors that may affect the accuracy of scale weights, and, if scales are not used, states the reason therefor and describes the actual method used to determine weight;
(iii) Estimates the quantity of cargo, if any, lost during discharge through ocean carrier negligence;
(iv) Advises on the quality of sweepings;
(v) Obtains copies of port or ocean carrier records, if possible, showing the quantity discharged; and
(vi) Notifies the recipient immediately if the surveyor has reason to believe that the correct quantity was not discharged or if additional services are necessary to protect the cargo; and
(4) If the damage or loss occurred with respect to a container shipment on an ocean carrier, the recipient must ensure that the independent cargo surveyor lists the container numbers and seal numbers shown on the containers, indicates whether the seals were intact at the time the containers were opened, and notes whether the containers were in any way damaged.
(e) If donated commodities to which a recipient has title sustain damage in excess of $5,000 at any time prior to their distribution or sale under the agreement, regardless of the party at fault, the recipient must immediately arrange for an inspection by a public health official or other competent authority approved by CCC and provide to CCC a certification by such public health official or other competent authority regarding the exact quantity and condition of the damaged donated commodities. The value of the donated
commodities prior to the damage must be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by CCC with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by CCC. The recipient must inform CCC of the results of the inspection and indicate whether the damaged donated commodities are:
(1) Fit for the use authorized in the agreement and, if so, whether there has been a diminution in quality; or
(2) Unfit for the use authorized in the agreement.
(f)(1) If a recipient has title to the donated commodities, the recipient must arrange for the recovery of that portion of the donated commodities designated as fit for the use authorized in the agreement. The recipient must dispose of donated commodities that are unfit for such use in the following order of priority:
(i) Sale for the most appropriate use,
i.e.,
animal feed, fertilizer, industrial use, or another use approved by CCC, at the highest obtainable price;
(ii) Donation to a governmental or charitable organization for use as animal feed or another non-food use; or
(iii) Destruction of the donated commodities if they are unfit for any use, in such manner as to prevent their use for any purpose.
(2) A recipient must arrange for all U.S. Government markings to be obliterated or removed before the donated commodities are transferred by sale or donation under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g) A recipient may retain any proceeds generated by the disposal of the donated commodities in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section and must use the retained proceeds for expenses related to the disposal of the donated commodities and for activities specified in the agreement.
(h) A recipient must notify CCC immediately and provide detailed information about the actions taken in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, including the quantities, values and dispositions of donated commodities determined to be unfit.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 53367, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.10
Claims for damage to or loss of donated commodities.
(a) CCC will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the donated commodities prior to the transfer of title to the donated commodities to the recipient. The recipient will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the donated commodities while the recipient has title to the donated commodities.
(b) If the recipient has title to donated commodities that have been damaged or lost, and the amount of the damage or loss is estimated to exceed $20,000, the recipient must:
(1) Promptly upon discovery of the damage or loss, initiate a claim arising out of such damage or loss, including, if appropriate, initiating an action to collect pursuant to a commercial insurance contract;
(2) Take all necessary action to pursue the claim diligently and within any applicable periods of limitations; and
(3) Provide to CCC copies of all documentation relating to the claim.
(c)(1) The value of a claim for lost donated commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by CCC with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by CCC.
(2) The value of a claim for damaged donated commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by CCC with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by CCC, less any funds generated if such commodities are sold in accordance with § 1499.9(f)(1).
(d) If CCC determines that a recipient has not initiated a claim or is not exercising due diligence in the pursuit of a claim, CCC may require the recipient to assign its rights to initiate or pursue the claim to CCC. Failure by the recipient to initiate a claim or exercise due diligence in the pursuit of a claim will be considered by CCC during the review of applications for subsequent food assistance awards.
(e)(1) A recipient may retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims
collection action initiated by it in accordance with this section, or recovered pursuant to any insurance policy or other similar form of indemnification, but such funds must be expended in accordance with the agreement or for other purposes approved in advance by CCC.
(2) CCC will retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims collection action initiated by it under this section; provided, however, that if the recipient paid for the transportation of the donated commodities or a portion thereof, CCC will use a portion of such funds to reimburse the recipient for such expense on a prorated basis.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 53367, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.11
Use of donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, and program income.
(a) A recipient must use the donated commodities, any sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, and program income in accordance with the agreement.
(b) A recipient must not use donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income for any activity or any expense incurred by the recipient or a subrecipient prior to the start date of the period of performance of the agreement or after the agreement is suspended or terminated, without the prior written approval of CCC.
(c) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities on the basis of political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal or religious identity or affiliation of the potential consumers or beneficiaries.
(d) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities by the military forces of any government or insurgent group without the specific authorization of CCC.
(e) A recipient must not use sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates a U.S. Government economic sanctions program, as specified in the agreement.
(f) A recipient may sell or barter donated commodities only if such sale or barter is provided for in the agreement or the recipient is disposing of damaged donated commodities as specified in § 1499.9(f). The recipient must sell donated commodities at a reasonable market price. The recipient must obtain approval of its proposed sale price from CCC before selling donated commodities. The recipient must use any sale proceeds, interest, program income, or goods or services derived from the sale or barter of the donated commodities only as provided in the agreement.
(g) A recipient must deposit and maintain all sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, and program income in a bank account until they are used for a purpose authorized under the agreement or the CCC-provided funds are returned to CCC in accordance with § 1499.6(f)(6). The account must be insured unless it is in a country where insurance is unavailable. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or CCC determines that this requirement would constitute an undue burden. The recipient must comply with the requirements in § 1499.6(f)(7) with regard to the deposit of advance payments by CCC.
(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, a recipient may make adjustments within the agreement budget between direct cost line items without further approval, provided that the total amount of such adjustments does not exceed the amount specified in the agreement. Adjustments beyond these limits require the prior approval of CCC.
(2) A recipient must not transfer any funds budgeted for participant support costs, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, to other categories of expense without the prior approval of CCC.
(i) A recipient may use sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to purchase real or personal property only if local law permits the recipient to retain title to such property. However, a recipient must not use sale
proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to pay for the acquisition, development, construction, alteration or upgrade of real property that is:
(1) Owned or managed by a church or other organization engaged exclusively in religious pursuits; or
(2) Used in whole or in part for sectarian purposes, except that a recipient may use sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of a structure located on such real property to the extent necessary to avoid spoilage or loss of donated commodities, but only if the structure is not used in whole or in part for any religious or sectarian purposes while the donated commodities are stored in it. If the use of sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of such a structure is not specifically provided for in the agreement, the recipient must not use the sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income for this purpose until it receives written approval from CCC.
(j) A recipient must comply with 2 CFR 200.321 when procuring goods and services in the United States. When procuring goods and services outside of the United States, a recipient should endeavor to comply with 2 CFR 200.321 where practicable.
(k) A recipient must enter into a written contract with each provider of goods, services, or construction work that is valued at or above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold. Each such contract must require the provider to maintain adequate records to account for all donated commodities, funds, or both furnished to the provider by the recipient and to comply with any other applicable requirements that may be specified by CCC in the agreement. The recipient must submit a copy of each signed contract to CCC, as specified in the agreement.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45059, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53367, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.12
Monitoring and evaluation requirements.
(a) A recipient will be responsible for designing a performance monitoring plan for the project, obtaining written approval of the plan from CCC before putting it into effect, and managing and implementing the plan, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.
(b) A recipient must establish baseline values, annual targets, and life of activity targets for each performance indicator included in the recipient's approved performance monitoring plan, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.
(c) A recipient must inform CCC, in the manner and within the time period specified in the agreement, of any problems, delays, or adverse conditions that materially impair the recipient's ability to meet the objectives of the agreement. This notification must include a statement of any corrective actions taken or contemplated by the recipient, and any additional assistance requested from CCC to resolve the situation.
(d) A recipient will be responsible for designing an evaluation plan for the project, obtaining written approval of the plan from CCC before putting it into effect, and arranging for an independent third party to implement the evaluation, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. This evaluation plan will detail the evaluation purpose and scope, key evaluation questions, evaluation methodology, time frame, evaluation management, and cost. This plan will generally be based upon the evaluation plan that the recipient submitted to CCC as part of its application, pursuant to § 1499.4(b)(6), unless the notice of funding opportunity specified that an evaluation plan was not required to be included in the application. The recipient must ensure that the evaluation plan:
(1) Is designed using the most rigorous methodology that is appropriate and feasible, taking into account available resources, strategy, current knowledge and evaluation practices in the sector, and the implementing environment;
(2) Is designed to inform management, activity implementation, and strategic decision-making;
(3) Utilizes analytical approaches and methodologies, based on the questions to be addressed, project design, budgetary resources available, and level of rigor and evidence required, which may
be implemented through methods such as case studies, surveys, quasi-experimental designs, randomized field experiments, cost-effectiveness analyses, implementation reviews, or a combination of methods;
(4) Adheres to generally accepted evaluation standards and principles;
(5) Uses participatory approaches that seek to include the perspectives of diverse parties and all relevant stakeholders; and
(6) Where possible, utilizes local consultants and seeks to build local capacity in evaluation.
(e)(1) Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, a recipient must arrange for evaluations of the project to be conducted by an independent third party that:
(i) Is financially and legally separate from the recipient's organization; and
(ii) Has staff with demonstrated methodological, cultural and language competencies, and specialized experience in conducting evaluations of international development programs involving agriculture, trade, education, and nutrition, provided that CCC may determine that, for a particular agreement, the staff of the independent third party evaluator is not required to have specialized experience in conducting evaluations of programs involving one or more of these four areas.
(2) A recipient must provide a written certification to CCC that there is no real or apparent conflict of interest on the part of any recipient staff member or third party entity designated or hired to play a substantive role in the evaluation of activities under the agreement.
(f) CCC will be considered a key stakeholder in all evaluations conducted as part of the agreement.
(g)(1) A recipient is responsible for establishing the required financial and human capital resources for monitoring and evaluation of activities under the agreement. The recipient must maintain a separate budget for monitoring and evaluation, with separate budget line items for dedicated recipient monitoring and evaluation staff and independent third-party evaluation contracts.
(2) Personnel at a recipient's headquarters offices and field offices with specialized expertise and experience in monitoring and evaluation may be used by the recipient for dedicated monitoring and evaluation. Unless otherwise specified in the agreement or approved evaluation plan, all evaluations must be managed by the recipient's evaluation experts outside of the recipient's line management for the activities.
(h) CCC may independently conduct or commission an evaluation of a single agreement or an evaluation that includes multiple agreements. A recipient must cooperate, and comply with any demands for information or materials made in connection, with any evaluation conducted or commissioned by CCC. Such evaluations may be conducted by CCC internally or by a CCC-hired external evaluation contractor.
§ 1499.13
Reporting and record keeping requirements.
(a) A recipient must comply with the performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.328 through 200.330.
(b) A recipient must submit financial reports to CCC, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. Such reports must provide an accurate accounting of sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions. When reporting financial information under the agreement, the recipient must include the amounts in U.S. dollars and, if funds are held in local currency, the exchange rate.
(c)(1) A recipient must submit performance reports to CCC, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. These reports must include the following:
(i) The information required in 2 CFR 200.329(c)(2), including additional pertinent information regarding the recipient's progress, measured against established indicators, baseline values, and targets, towards achieving the expected results specified in the agreement. This reporting must include, for each performance indicator, a comparison of actual accomplishments with the baseline values and the targets established for the period. When actual
accomplishments deviate significantly from targeted goals, the recipient must provide an explanation in the report;
(ii) Information covering the receipt, handling, and disposition of the donated commodities, until all of the donated commodities have been distributed, sold, or bartered and such disposition has been reported to CCC; and
(iii) If the agreement authorizes the sale or barter of donated commodities, information covering the receipt and use of any sale proceeds, goods and services derived from barter, and program income, until all of the sale proceeds, goods and services derived from barter, and program income have been disbursed or used and reported to CCC.
(2) A recipient must ensure the accuracy and reliability of the performance data submitted to CCC in performance reports. At any time during the period of performance of the agreement, CCC may review the recipient's performance data to determine whether it is accurate and reliable. The recipient must comply with all requests made by CCC or an entity designated by CCC in relation to such reviews.
(d) Baseline, midterm, and final evaluation reports are required for all agreements, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. The reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeline in the CCC-approved evaluation plan. Evaluation reports submitted to CCC may be made public in an effort to increase accountability and transparency and share lessons learned and best practices.
(e) A recipient must, within 30 days after export of all or a portion of the donated commodities, submit evidence of such export to CCC, in the manner set forth in the agreement. The evidence may be submitted through an electronic media approved by CCC or by providing the ocean carrier's on board bill of lading. The evidence of export must show the kind and quantity of commodities exported, the date of export, and the country where the commodities will be delivered. The date of export is the date that the ocean carrier carrying the donated commodities sails from the final U.S. load port.
(f) If requested by CCC, a recipient must provide to CCC additional information or reports relating to the agreement.
(g) If a recipient requires an extension of a reporting deadline, it must ensure that CCC receives an extension request at least five business days prior to the reporting deadline. CCC may decline to consider a request for an extension that it receives after this time period. CCC will consider requests for reporting deadline extensions on a case by case basis and make a decision based on the merits of each request. CCC will consider factors such as unforeseen or extenuating circumstances and past performance history when evaluating requests for extensions.
(h) A recipient must retain records and permit access to records in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR 200.334 through 200.338. The date of submission of the final expenditure report, as referenced in 2 CFR 200.334, will be the date of submission of the final financial report required by paragraph (b) of this section, as prescribed by CCC. The recipient must retain copies of and make available to CCC all sales receipts, contracts, or other documents related to the sale or barter of donated commodities and any goods or services derived from such barter, as well as records of dispatch received from ocean carriers.
[87 FR 53368, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.14
Subrecipients.
(a) A recipient may utilize the services of a subrecipient to implement activities under the agreement if this is provided for in the agreement. The subrecipient may receive donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, program income, or other resources from the recipient for this purpose. The recipient must enter into a written subagreement with the subrecipient and comply with the applicable provisions of 2 CFR 200.332. The recipient must provide a copy of each subagreement to CCC, in the manner set forth in the agreement, prior to the transfer of any donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to the subrecipient.
(b) A recipient must include the following requirements in a subagreement:
(1) The subrecipient is required to comply with the applicable provisions of this part and 2 CFR parts 200 and 400. The applicable provisions are those that relate specifically to subrecipients, as well as those relating to non-Federal entities that impose requirements that would be reasonable to pass through to a subrecipient because they directly concern the implementation by the subrecipient of one or more activities under the agreement. If there is a question about whether a particular provision is applicable, CCC will make the determination.
(2) The subrecipient is prohibited from using sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates a U.S. Government economic sanctions program, as specified in the agreement.
(3) The subrecipient must pay to the recipient the value of any donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income that are not used in accordance with the subagreement, or that are lost, damaged, or misused as a result of the subrecipient's failure to exercise reasonable care.
(4) The subrecipient is responsible for complying with the applicable compliance requirements set forth in the subaward in accordance with § 1499.18 and 2 CFR 200.501(h). Methods to ensure compliance may include pre-award audits, monitoring during the agreement, and post-award audits.
(c) A recipient must monitor the actions of a subrecipient as necessary to ensure that donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, and program income provided to the subrecipient are used for authorized purposes in compliance with applicable U.S. Federal laws and regulations and the subagreement and that performance indicator targets are achieved for both activities and results under the agreement.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45060, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53368, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.15
Noncompliance with an agreement.
If a recipient fails to comply with a Federal statute or regulation or the terms and conditions of the agreement, and CCC determines that the noncompliance cannot be remedied by imposing additional conditions, CCC may take one or more of the actions set forth in 2 CFR 200.339 and, if appropriate, initiate a claim against the recipient. CCC may also initiate a claim against a recipient if the donated commodities are damaged or lost, or the sale proceeds, goods received through barter, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income are misused or lost, due to an action or omission of the recipient.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 53368, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.16
Suspension and termination of agreements.
(a) CCC may suspend or terminate an agreement if it determines that:
(1) One of the bases in 2 CFR 200.339 or 200.340 for suspension or termination by CCC has been satisfied;
(2) The continuation of the assistance provided under the agreement is no longer necessary or desirable; or
(3) Storage facilities are inadequate to prevent spoilage or waste of the donated commodities, or distribution of the donated commodities will result in a substantial disincentive to or interference with domestic production or marketing in the target country.
(b) The termination provisions in 2 CFR 200.340 and 200.341 will apply to an agreement.
(c) If an agreement is terminated, the recipient:
(1) Is responsible for the security and integrity of any undistributed donated commodities and must dispose of such commodities only as agreed to by CCC;
(2) Is responsible for any sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income that have not been disbursed and must use or return them only as agreed to by CCC; and
(3) Must comply with any closeout and post-closeout provisions specified
in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.344 and 200.345.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45060, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53368, Aug. 31, 2022]
§ 1499.17
Opportunities to object and appeals.
(a) CCC will provide an opportunity to a recipient to object to, and provide information and documentation challenging, any action taken by CCC pursuant to § 1499.15. CCC will comply with any requirements for hearings, appeals, or other administrative proceedings to which the recipient is entitled under any other statute or regulation applicable to the action involved. For example, if the action taken by CCC pursuant to § 1499.15 is to initiate suspension or debarment proceedings as authorized under 2 CFR parts 180 and 417, then the requirements in 2 CFR parts 180 and 417 will apply instead of the requirements in this section. In the absence of other applicable statutory or regulatory requirements, the requirements set forth in this section will apply.
(b) The recipient must submit its objection in writing, along with any documentation, to the official specified in the agreement within 30 days after the date of CCC's written notification to the recipient of the CCC action being challenged. This official will endeavor to notify the recipient of his or her determination (the initial determination) within 60 days after the date that CCC received the recipient's written objection.
(c) The recipient may appeal the initial determination to the Administrator, FAS. An appeal must be in writing and be submitted to the Office of the Administrator within 30 days after the date of the initial determination. The recipient may submit additional documentation with its appeal.
(d) The Administrator will base the determination on appeal upon information contained in the administrative record and will endeavor to make a determination within 60 days after the date that CCC received the appeal. The determination of the Administrator will be the final determination of CCC. The recipient must exhaust all administrative remedies contained in this section before pursuing judicial review of a determination by the Administrator.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45060, Aug. 28, 2019]
§ 1499.18
Audit requirements.
(a) Subpart F, Audit Requirements, of 2 CFR part 200 applies to recipients and subrecipients under this part other than those that are for-profit entities, foreign public entities, or foreign organizations.
(b) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total of at least the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards, is required to obtain an audit. Such a recipient or subrecipient has the following two options to satisfy this requirement:
(1)(i) A financial audit of the agreement or subagreement, in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards issued by the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO), if the recipient or subrecipient expends Federal awards under only one CCC program during such fiscal year; or
(ii) A financial audit of all Federal awards from CCC, in accordance with GAO's Government Auditing Standards, if the recipient or subrecipient expends Federal awards under multiple CCC programs during such fiscal year; or
(2) An audit that meets the requirements contained in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.
(c) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total that is less than the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards, is exempt from requirements under this section for an audit for that year, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section, but it must make records available for review by appropriate officials of Federal agencies.
(d) CCC may require an annual financial audit of an agreement or subagreement when the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 is not met. In that case, CCC must provide funds under the agreement for this purpose, and the recipient or subrecipient, as
applicable, must arrange for such audit and submit it to CCC.
(e) When a recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization is required to obtain a financial audit under this section, it must provide a copy of the audit to CCC within 60 days after the end of its fiscal year.
(f) CCC, the USDA Office of Inspector General, or GAO may conduct or arrange for additional audits of any recipients or subrecipients, including for-profit entities and foreign organizations. Recipients and subrecipients must promptly comply with all requests related to such audits. If CCC conducts or arranges for an additional audit, such as an audit with respect to a particular agreement, CCC will fund the full cost of such an audit, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.503(d).
§ 1499.19
Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, and have been assigned OMB control number 0551-0035. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
[81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 53369, Aug. 31, 2022]
7 CFR Ch. XV (1-1-25 Edition)
Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA

# CHAPTER XV—FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
1500-1519
[Reserved]
1520
Availability of information to the public
1179
1530
The Refined Sugar Re-Export Program, the Sugar Containing Products Re-Export Program, and the Polyhydric Alcohol Program
1179
1540
International agricultural trade
1186
1560
Procedures to monitor Canadian fresh fruit and vegetable imports
1191
1570
Export bonus programs
1192
1580
Trade adjustment assistance for farmers
1193
1590
United States Department of Agriculture Local and Regional Food Aid Procurement Program
1201
1599
McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program
1218
PARTS 1500-1519 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1520

# PART 1520—AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
Sec.
1520.1
General statement.
1520.2
Location and hours.
1520.3
Indexes/Record Systems.
1520.4
Agency FOIA Officer.
1520.5
Agency Appeal Official.
1520.6
Other information.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552

# Source:
67 FR 45895, July 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1520.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture 7 CFR, part 1—Administrative Regulations, Subpart A—Official Records, § 1.3, Agency Implementing Regulations, for the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). The Secretary's Regulations, as implemented by the regulations in this part govern the availability of records of the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) to the public.
§ 1520.2
Location and hours.
Members of the public should contact the FAS FOIA Officer to arrange a place and time to review documents. Contact the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agriculture Service, Public Affairs Division, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250-1004. The office will be open from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, except national holidays, Tel.: 202-720-3448, Fax: 202-720-1727.
§ 1520.3
Indexes/Record systems.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) required that each agency publish or otherwise make available a current index of all materials for public inspection and copying. The Foreign Agricultural Service maintains the following record systems. FAS regulations, manuals, and notices; attache reports; general publications; and statements of policy and procedures for various FAS programs. Copies of the FAS index may be obtained free of charge by contacting the office specified in § 1520.2.
§ 1520.4
Agency FOIA Officer.
Requests for records shall be made to the Freedom of Information Officer, Public Affairs Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, Ag Box 1004, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-1004. Tel.: 202-720-3448, Fax: 202-720-1727.
§ 1520.5
Agency Appeal Official.
Any person whose request under § 1520.4 is denied shall have the right to appeal such a denial. For appeals, write to the following official and mark your letters “FOIA Appeal”: Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250-1004, Attn: FOIA Appeal.
§ 1520.6
Other information.
Many documents are available to the public without having to file an FOIA request. These include press releases, speeches, congressional testimony, program regulations, and some letters and memoranda. Some of this information can be found on the FAS web site,
www.fas.usda.gov.
Also, the FAS annual FOIA report is available on the agency's web site at
www.fas.usda.gov.
Click on FOIA at the bottom of the page. To request a paper copy of the FAS FOAI annual report, write to: Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Ave. SW., Ag Box 1004, Washington, DC 20250-1004, Attn: Freedom on Information Officer.
Pt. 1530

# PART 1530—THE REFINED SUGAR RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, THE SUGAR CONTAINING PRODUCTS RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, AND THE POLYHYDRIC ALCOHOL PROGRAM
Sec.
1530.100
General statement.
1530.101
Definitions.
1530.102
Nature of the license.
1530.103
License eligibility.
1530.104
Application for a license.
1530.105
Terms and conditions.
1530.106
License charges and credits.
1530.107
Bond or letter of credit requirements.
1530.108
Revocation or surrender of licenses.
1530.109
Reporting.
1530.110
Records, certification, and documentation.
1530.111
Enforcement and penalties.
1530.112
Administrative appeals.
1530.113
Waivers.
1530.114
Implementation.
1530.115
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.

# Authority:
Additional U.S. note 6 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202); 19 U.S.C. 3314; Proc. 6641, 58 FR 66867, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 172; Proc. 6763, 60 FR 1007, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 146.

# Source:
64 FR 7062, Feb. 12, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1530.100
General statement.
This part provides regulations for the Refined Sugar Re-Export Program, the Sugar Containing Products Re-Export Program, and the Polyhydric Alcohol Program. Under these provisions, refiners may enter raw sugar unrestricted by the quantitative limit established for the raw sugar tariff-rate quota or the requirements of certificates of quota eligibility provided for in 15 CFR part 2011, as long as licensees under the programs export an equivalent quantity of refined sugar, either as refined sugar or as an ingredient in sugar containing products, or use the refined sugar in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols.
§ 1530.101
Definitions.
Affiliated persons
means two or more persons where one or more of said persons directly or indirectly controls or has the power to control the other(s), or, a third person controls or has the power to control the others. Indications of control include, but are not limited to: interlocking management or ownership, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and equipment, and common use of employees.
Agent
means a person who represents the licensee in any program transaction. An agent shall not, at any time, own any of the product produced by the program licensee. Agents may include brokers, shippers, freight forwarders, expediters, and co-packers.
Bond or letter of credit
means an insurance agreement pledging surety for the entry of foreign sugar without the required re-export within the program guidelines.
Certain polyhydric alcohols
means any polyhydric alcohol, except polyhydric alcohol produced by distillation or polyhydric alcohol used as a substitute for sugar as a sweetener in human food.
Co-packer
means a person who adds value to a licensed manufacturer's product, or produces a product for export by a licensed manufacturer.
Date of entry
means the date raw sugar enters the U.S. Customs Territory.
Date of export
means the date refined sugar or sugar containing products are exported from the U.S. Customs Territory, or, if exported to a restricted foreign trade zone, the date shown on the U.S. Customs Service form designating the product as restricted for export.
Date of transfer
means the date that ownership of program sugar is conveyed from a refiner to a manufacturer or producer licensee.
Day
means calendar day. When the day for complying with an obligation under this part falls on a weekend or Federal holiday, the obligation may be completed on the next business day.
Documentation agreement
means a signed and notarized letter from a licensee specifying certain documentation that the licensee shall obtain and maintain on file before said licensee requests from USDA updating of a license balance.
Enter or entry
means importation into the U.S. Customs Territory, or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption, as those terms are used by the U.S. Customs Service.
Export
means the conveyance (shipment) of sugar or a sugar containing product from a licensee under this part to a country outside the U.S. Customs Territory, or to a restricted foreign trade zone.
Licensing Authority
means a person designated by the Director, Import Policies and Programs Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA.
Manufacturer
means a person who produces or causes to be produced on their behalf a sugar containing product for export under the provisions of this part.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, estate, trust, or any other business enterprise or legal entity.
Program sugar
means sugar that has been charged or credited to the license of a licensee in conformity with the provisions of this part.
Program transaction
means an appropriate entry, transfer, use, or export of program sugar.
Refined sugar
means any product that is produced by a refiner by refining raw cane sugar and that can be marketed as commercial, industrial or retail sugar.
Refiner
means any person in the U.S. Customs Territory that refines raw cane sugar through affination or defecation, clarification, and further purification by absorption or crystallization.
Sugar containing product
means any product, other than those products normally marketed by cane sugar refiners, that is produced from refined sugar or to which refined sugar has been added as an ingredient.
Transfer
means the transfer of legal title of program sugar from a licensed refiner to a licensed manufacturer of a sugar containing product or a licensed producer of certain polyhydric alcohols for the production of sugar containing products or the production of certain polyhydric alcohols.
Unique number
means a tracking number established by a licensee for a transaction (entry, transfer, export, or use). A unique number is established for a transaction to or from a specific country or licensee. The unique number is also assigned by the licensee to a file that contains all of the supporting documentation for the transaction for which it was established. The unique number is the means by which program transactions will be tracked.
§ 1530.102
Nature of the license.
(a) A person who wishes to participate in the Refined Sugar Re-export Program, the Sugar Containing Products Re-export Program, or the Polyhydric Alcohol Program must first obtain a license from the USDA, through the Licensing Authority.
(b) A license under the Refined Sugar Re-export Program permits a refiner to enter raw cane sugar under subheading 1701.11.20 of the HTS, and export an equivalent quantity of refined sugar onto the world market or transfer an equivalent quantity of refined sugar to licensees under the Sugar Containing Products Re-export Program or the Polyhydric Alcohol Program.
(c) A license under the Sugar Containing Products Re-export Program or Polyhydric Alcohol Program permits licensees to receive transfers and export an equivalent quantity of sugar as an ingredient in sugar containing products, or use an equivalent quantity of sugar in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols.
(d) All refining, manufacturing, and production shall be accomplished in the U.S. Customs Territory, and within time-frames and quantity limitations prescribed in this part. Program sugar and non-program sugar are substitutable.
(e) A licensee must establish a bond or a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to charge program sugar in anticipation of the export or transfer of refined sugar, the export of sugar in sugar containing products, or the production of certain polyhydric alcohols.
§ 1530.103
License eligibility.
(a) A raw cane sugar refiner, a manufacturer of sugar containing products, or a producer of certain polyhydric alcohols, that owns and operates a facility within the U.S. Customs Territory, is eligible for a license to participate in the Refined Sugar Re-export Program, the Sugar Containing Products Re-export Program, or the Polyhydric Alcohol Program, respectively.
(b) No person may apply for or hold more than one license, including a license held by an affiliated person.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a person who owns one or more wholly-owned subsidiary corporations manufacturing sugar containing products or producing certain polyhydric alcohols, which would otherwise qualify for an individual license, is eligible for a consolidated license to cover the program transactions and other program activities of both the parent corporation and the subsidiary
corporation(s). The program transactions and other program activities of the subsidiary corporation(s) covered by a consolidated license shall be treated as the activities of the corporation holding the consolidated license.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, each wholly-owned subsidiary manufacturing sugar containing products or producing certain polyhydric alcohols may establish a license for program activities instead of the parent corporation establishing a consolidated license. The sum total of license limits for the parent corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary corporation(s) shall not exceed the quantitative limits established in § 1530.105 of this part.
§ 1530.104
Application for a license.
(a) A person seeking a license shall apply in writing to the Licensing Authority and shall submit the following information:
(1) The name and address of the applicant;
(2) The address at which the applicant will maintain the records required under § 1530.110;
(3) The address(es) of the applicant's processing plant(s), including any wholly-owned subsidiary(s) and plant(s) in the case of a consolidated license, and including those of any co-packer(s);
(4) In the case of a refined sugar product, the polarity of the product and the formula proposed by the refiner for calculating the refined sugar in the product;
(5) In the case of a sugar containing product, the percentage of refined sugar (100 degree polarity), on a dry weight basis, contained in such product(s);
(6) In the case of polyhydric alcohol, the quantity of refined sugar used producing certain polyhydric alcohols; and
(7) A certification explaining that the applicant is not affiliated with any other licensee, or explaining any affiliations, should they exist.
(b) A documentation agreement must be concluded with the Licensing Authority.
(c) If any of the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the licensee shall promptly apply to the Licensing Authority to amend the application to include such changes.
§ 1530.105
Terms and conditions.
(a) A licensed refiner (refiner) shall, not later than 90 days after entering a quantity of raw cane sugar under subheading 1701.11.20 of the HTS, export or transfer an equivalent quantity of refined sugar if the entry results in a positive license balance.
(b) A licensed sugar containing products manufacturer (manufacturer) or a licensed polyhydric alcohol producer (producer) shall, not later than 18 months from the date of transfer of a quantity of refined sugar from a refiner, export an equivalent quantity of refined sugar as an ingredient in a sugar containing product if the transfer results in a positive license balance, or use an equivalent quantity of refined sugar in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols if the transfer results in a positive license balance, respectively.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, licensees may receive credit for the exportation or transfer of refined sugar, the exportation of a sugar containing product, or the production of certain polyhydric alcohols prior to the corresponding date of entry of raw cane sugor the date of transfer of refined sugar.
(d) Licensees are encouraged to submit monthly program transaction reports, but shall report no later than 90 days from the date of entry, transfer, export, or use.
(e) A refiner may enter raw sugar, or a manufacturer or producer may receive a transfer of refined sugar, in anticipation of the transfer or export of refined sugar (refiner), the export of sugar in sugar containing products (manufacturer) or the production of a polyhydric alcohol (producer) not to exceed the value of a bond or letter of credit, which must be established pursuant to § 1530.107 of this part. The value of a bond or letter of credit shall not exceed the license limits established in this section.
(f) A refiner shall not exceed a license balance of 50,000 metric tons, raw value for the sum of all charges and credits.
(g) A refiner may enter raw sugar from Mexico and re-export, within 30 days of entry, refined sugar to Mexico without a charge against the refiner's license balance. If the refined sugar is not re-exported to Mexico within 30 days of entry, the license shall be charged the quantity that has not been re-exported.
(h) A manufacturer or a producer shall not exceed a license balance of 10,000 short tons, refined value for the sum of all charges and credits.
(i) A manufacturer's or a producer's consolidated license balance, or the sum of a parent company and wholly-owned subsidiary license balances if held separately, shall not exceed a license balance of 25,000 short tons, refined value for the sum of all charges and credits.
(j) For the purposes of the programs governed by this part, sugar is fully substitutable. The refined sugar transferred, exported, or used does not need to be the same sugar produced by refining raw sugar entered under subheading 1701.11.20 of the HTS.
(k) A licensee may use an agent to carry out the requirements of participation in the program. The licensee must retain ownership of and responsibility for the product until exported from the U.S. Customs Territory, to a restricted foreign trade zone, or used in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols, and must establish and maintain sufficient documentation, as agreed in the documentation agreement pursuant to § 1530.110, to substantiate export of the product or the production of certain polyhydric alcohols.
(l) A license may be assigned only with the written permission of the Licensing Authority and subject to such terms and conditions as the Licensing Authority may impose.
(m) The Licensing Authority may impose such conditions, limitations or restrictions in connection with the use of a license at such time and in such manner as the Licensing Authority, at his or her discretion, determines to be necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the relevant program.
§ 1530.106
License charges and credits.
(a) A license shall be charged or credited for the quantity of sugar entered, transferred, exported, or used, adjusted to a dry weight basis. Refiner quantities shall be adjusted to raw value, using the formulas set forth in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section. Manufacturer and producer quantities shall be adjusted to 100 degrees polarity on a dry weight basis.
(1) To adjust the raw value for sugar with a polarization of less than 92 degrees, divide the total sugar content by 0.972 (polarization × outturn weight/.972).
(2) To adjust the raw value for sugar with polarization of 92 degrees or above, multiply the polarization times 0.0175, subtract 0.68, and multiply the difference by the outturn weight (((polarization × 0.0175)−0.68) × outturn weight).
(3) To determine the quantity of refined sugar that must be transferred or exported to equal a corresponding quantity of entered raw sugar charged to a license, divide the quantity of entered raw sugar by 1.07 (raw quantity/1.07).
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1530.107
Bond or letter of credit requirements.
(a) The licensee may charge program sugar in anticipation of the transfer or export of refined sugar, the export of sugar in sugar containing products, or the production of certain polyhydric alcohols, if the licensee establishes a performance bond or a letter of credit with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which meets the criteria set forth in this section.
(b) The bond or letter of credit may cover entries made either during the period of time specified in the bond (a term bond) or for a specified entry (a single entry bond).
(c) Only the licensee who will refine the sugar, manufacture the sugar containing product, or produce certain polyhydric alcohols may be the principal on the bond or letter of credit covering such sugar to be re-exported or used in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols. The surety or sureties shall be among those listed by the Secretary of the Treasury as acceptable on Federal bonds.
(d) The obligation under the bond or letter of credit shall be made effective
no later than the date of entry of the sugar for refiners or the date of transfer of the corresponding sugar for manufacture into a sugar containing product or certain polyhydric alcohols.
(e) The amount of the bond or letter of credit shall be equal to 20 cents per pound of sugar to be entered under the license.
(f) If a licensee fails to qualify for credit to a license within the specified time period of the date of export or use of corresponding sugar in an amount sufficient to offset the charge to the license for that corresponding sugar, payment shall be made to the U.S. Treasury. The payment shall be equal to the difference between the Number 11 contract price and the Number 14 contract price (New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange) in effect on the last market day before the date of entry of the sugar or the last market day before the end of the period during which export or use was required, whichever difference is greater. The difference shall be multiplied by the quantity of refined sugar, converted to raw value, that should have been exported in compliance with this part. If there was not a Number 11, or a Number 14 contract price for the relevant market day, the Licensing Authority may estimate such price as he or she deems appropriate.
§ 1530.108
Revocation or surrender of licenses.
(a) A license may be revoked upon written notice by the Licensing Authority.
(b) A licensee may surrender a license when the sum of all credits is equal to or greater than the sum of all charges.
§ 1530.109
Reporting.
(a) A licensee may submit as often as monthly for charges and credits against a license balance, but must submit at least a quarterly report to the Licensing Authority not later than 90 days after the earliest transaction in the report for which credits or charges are being submitted. The licensee need not report when there have not been transactions during the reporting period.
(b) Reports may be submitted by e-mail, U.S. mail, private courier, or in person, but must be in an integrated database format acceptable to the Licensing Authority. A copy of this format may be obtained from the Licensing Authority. Applicants unable to submit a report in the specified electronic format may seek a temporary waiver to permit them to submit the report on paper.
(c) The reports must include the following for all program transactions:
(1) A unique number associated with the transaction;
(2) The date of the entry, transfer (only a refiner shall report transfers to the Licensing Authority), export, or use;
(3) The quantity of program sugar entered, transferred, exported as refined sugar, or used in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols;
(4) The licensee's license number, or if a transfer is being reported, the licensee's license number as well as the transfer recipient's license number;
(5) The country of origin (entry of raw sugar) or final destination (refined exports), using the exact country code designated in the HTS; and
(6) The initial and final polarization, and final weight (when available) for entries of raw sugar.
(d) Licensees have an affirmative and continuing duty to maintain the accuracy of the information contained in previously submitted reports.
(1) The licensee shall immediately notify the Licensing Authority and promptly request that previously claimed credits be charged back upon discovery that previously claimed exports of refined sugar, refined sugar in sugar containing products, or refined sugar used in the production of polyhydric alcohol were re-entered into the U.S. Customs Territory without substantial transformation, not used in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols, made under a false underlying proof of export, or made but previously submitted exports do not otherwise satisfy the requirements of regulations or the documentation agreement.
(2) Charge backs shall be as of the date of the erroneously claimed credit.
§ 1530.110
Records, certification, and documentation.
(a) A licensee shall establish a documentation agreement with the Licensing Authority before submitting for credit against a license. The licensee shall propose to the Licensing Authority a list of documents to substantiate entries, transfers, exports, or use as appropriate. The Licensing Authority shall consider the licensee's proposal to assure that it provides that a program transaction is fully substantiated, and shall then respond in writing to the licensee in a timely fashion outlining any deficiencies. Once agreed, the licensee shall submit a notarized letter specifying the documents to be maintained on file and certifying that the charges and credits made pursuant to § 1530.106 will be kept on file, identifiable by a unique number, and available for inspection pursuant to § 1530.110.
(b) For all transactions, the documentation shall:
(1) Substantiate the information required in § 1530.109 (c), and the completion of the reported transaction;
(2) Establish the buyer and seller specifications for a transaction;
(3) Include all U.S. Customs forms submitted in the entry or export process;
(4) Provide the correct telephone numbers and addresses of any agents, consignees, foreign purchasers, and non-vessel operating common carriers used in completing the transaction;
(5) Indicate the port of entry or export for the program transaction;
(6) Provide the percentage of sugar in a sugar containing product or certain polyhydric alcohols; and
(7) Provide the name of export carrier, vessel name, and container number.
(c) The licensee shall maintain the documentation established in the documentation agreement for 5 years from the date of such program transaction.
(d) Upon request, the licensee shall make the records, outlined by the documentation agreement and identified (associated) by the unique number assigned by the licensee to the program transaction as reported to the Licensing Authority for posting against a license balance, available for inspection and copying by the Licensing Authority, the Compliance Review Staff of the Foreign Agricultural Service, and/or the Office of the Inspector General, USDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, or any U.S. Government regulatory or investigative office.
§ 1530.111
Enforcement and penalties.
(a) The Licensing Authority may revoke credits granted on a license if the credits granted do not meet the requirements set forth in the regulations of this part, or if the licensee does not voluntarily charge back credits erroneously claimed in accordance with these regulations. The Licensing Authority may also recommend revocation of a license, if the licensee has been in violation of § 1530.109 (c) of this part.
(b) The Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA, may suspend or revoke a license upon recommendation of the Licensing Authority. Suspension of a license will be governed by 2 CFR part 417, subpart G, and debarment will be governed by 2 CFR part 417, subpart H.
[64 FR 7062, Feb. 12, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 31938, May 28, 2020]
§ 1530.112
Administrative appeals.
(a) The licensee may appeal the Licensing Authority's determination by filing a written notice of appeal, signed by the licensee or the licensee's agent, with the Director, Import Policies and Programs Division, Foreign Agricultural Service (Director), or his or her designee. The decision on such an appeal shall be made by the Director, and will be governed by § 3017.515 of this title. The appeal must be filed not later than 30 days after the date of the Licensing Authority's determination, and shall contain the licensee's written argument.
(b) The licensee may request an informal hearing. The Director shall arrange a place and time for the hearing, except that it shall be held within 30 days of the filing date of the notice of appeal if the licensee so requests.
(c) The licensee may be represented by counsel, and shall have full opportunity to present any relevant evidence, documentary or testimonial. The Director may permit other individuals to present evidence at the hearing
and the licensee shall have an opportunity to question those witnesses.
(d) The licensee may request a verbatim transcript of the hearing, and shall be responsible for arranging for a professional reporter and shall pay all attendant expenses.
(e) The Director shall make the determination on appeal, and may affirm, reverse, modify or remand the Licensing Authority's determination. The Director shall notify the licensee in writing of the determination on appeal and of the basis thereof. The determination on appeal exhausts the licensee's administrative remedies.
§ 1530.113
Waivers.
Upon written application of the licensee or at the discretion of the Licensing Authority, and for good cause, the Licensing Authority may extend the period for transfer, export, or production, and/or may temporarily increase a maximum license limit, may extend the period for submitting regularly scheduled reports, or may temporarily waive or modify any other requirement imposed by this part if the Licensing Authority determines that such a waiver will not undermine the purpose of the relevant program or adversely affect domestic sugar policy objectives. The Licensing Authority may specify additional requirements or procedures in place of the requirements or procedures waived or modified.
§ 1530.114
Implementation.
Current program participants may qualify under this rule upon concluding a documentation agreement with the Licensing Authority, but must conclude a documentation agreement within 24 months of the effective date of this rule. Participant license balances, as of the effective date of this rule, shall continue under this rule.
§ 1530.115
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
Licensees are not required to respond to requests for information unless the form for collecting information displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part in accordance with 44 U.S.C. chapter 35. OMB number 0551-0015 has been assigned and will expire November 30, 1999.
Pt. 1540

# PART 1540—INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TRADE

# Subpart A—Emergency Relief From Duty-Free Imports of Perishable Products
Sec.
1540.1
Applicability of subpart.
1540.2
Definitions.
1540.3
Who may file request.
1540.4
Contents of request.
1540.5
Submission of recommendations.
1540.6
Information.
1540.7
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.

# Subpart B—Emergency Relief From Certain Perishable Products Imported From Israel
1540.20
Applicability of subpart.
1540.21
Definition.
1540.22
Who may file request.
1540.23
Contents of request.
1540.24
Determination of the Secretary of Agriculture.
1540.25
Information.
1540.26
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.

# Subpart C—Emergency Relief From Duty-Free Imports of Perishable Products From Certain Andean Countries
1540.40
Applicability of subpart.
1540.41
Definitions.
1540.42
Who may file request.
1540.43
Contents of request.
1540.44
Submission of recommendations by the Secretary of Agriculture.
1540.45
Information.

# Authority:
Sec. 213(f), Pub. L. 98-67, 97 Stat. 391 (19 U.S.C. 2703(f)); 5 U.S.C. 301; sec. 404, Pub. L. 98-573, 98 Stat. 3016, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2112 note); 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Subpart A—Emergency Relief From Duty-Free Imports of Perishable Products

# Authority:
Sec. 213(f), Pub. L. 98-67, 97 Stat. 391 (19 U.S.C. 2703(f); 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
49 FR 22265, May 29, 1984, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
For United States International Trade Commission regulations on investigations of import injury and the rules pertaining to the filing of a section 201 petition, see 19 CFR part 206.
§ 1540.1
Applicability of subpart.
This subpart applies to requests for emergency relief from duty-free imports of perishable products filed with the Department of Agriculture under section 213(f) of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act of 1983, title II of Pub. L. 98-67, 97 Stat. 384 (19 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
) (the Act).
§ 1540.2
Definitions.
(a)
Perishable product
means:
(1) Live plants provided for in subpart A of part 6 of schedule 1 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States (TSUS);
(2) Fresh or chilled vegetables provided for in items 135.10 through 138.42 of the TSUS;
(3) Fresh mushrooms provided for in item 144.10 of the TSUS;
(4) Fresh fruit provided for in items 146.10, 146.20, 146.30, 146.50 through 146.62, 146.90, 146.91, 147.03 through 147.33, 147.50 through 149.21 and 149.50 of the TSUS;
(5) Fresh cut flowers provided for in items 192.17, 192.18, and 192.21 of the TSUS; and
(6) Concentrated citrus fruit juice provided for in items 165.25 and 165.35 of the TSUS.
(b)
Beneficiary country
means any country listed in section 212(b) of the Act with respect to which there is in effect a proclamation by the President designating such country as a beneficiary country for purposes of the Act.
§ 1540.3
Who may file request.
A request under this subpart may be filed by an entity, including a firm, or group or workers, trade association, or certified or recognized union which is representative of a domestic industry producing a perishable product like or directly competitive with a perishable product that such entity claims is being imported into the United States duty-free under the provisions of the Act from a beneficiary country(ies) in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to such domestic industry.
§ 1540.4
Contents of request.
A request for emergency action under section 213(f) of the Act shall be submitted in duplicate to the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Such requests shall be supported by appropriate information and data and shall include to the extent possible:
(a) A description of the imported perishable product(s) allegedly causing, or threatening to cause, serious injury;
(b) The beneficiary country(ies) of origin of the allegedly injurious imports;
(c) Data showing that the perishable product allegedly causing, or threatening to cause, serious injury is being imported from the designated beneficiary country(ies) in increased quantities as compared with imports of the same product from the designated beneficiary country(ies) during a previous representative period of time (including a statement of why the period used should be considered to be representative);
(d) Evidence of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry substantially caused by the increased quantities of imports of the product from the beneficiary country(ies); and
(e) A statement indicating why emergency action would be warranted under section 213(f) of the Act (including all available evidence that the injury caused by the increased quantities of imports from the beneficiary country(ies) would be relieved by the suspension of the duty-free treatment accorded under the Act).
A copy of the petition and the supporting evidence filed with the United States International Trade Commission under section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, must be provided with the request for emergency action.
§ 1540.5
Submission of recommendations.
If the Secretary has reason to believe that the perishable product which is the subject of a petition under § 1540.4 of this subpart is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to the domestic industry producing a perishable product like or directly
competitive with the imported perishable product and that emergency action is warranted, the Secretary, within 14 days after the filing of the petition under § 1540.4 of this subpart, shall recommend to the President that the President take emergency action. If the Secretary determines not to recommend the imposition of emergency action, the Secretary shall publish a notice of such determination and will so advise the petitioner within 14 days after the filing of the petition.
§ 1540.6
Information.
Persons desiring information from the Department of Agriculture regarding the Department's implementation of section 213(f) of the Act should address such inquiries to the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
§ 1540.7
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements contained in these regulations in accordance with 44 U.S.C. chapter 25, and OMB number 0551-0018 has been assigned.

# Subpart B—Emergency Relief From Certain Perishable Products Imported From Israel

# Authority:
Sec. 404, Pub. L. 98-573, 98 Stat. 3016, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2112 note); 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
50 FR 43692, Oct. 29, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
For U.S. International Trade Commission regulations concerning investigations of import injury and the rules pertaining to the filing of a section 201 petition, see 19 CFR part 206.
§ 1540.20
Applicability of subpart.
This subpart applies to requests filed with the Department of Agriculture under section 404 of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-573, for emergency relief from imports of certain perishable products from Israel entering the United States at a reduced rate of duty or duty-free pursuant to a trade agreement between the United States and Israel entered into under section 102(b)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended.
§ 1540.21
Definition.
Perishable product
means:
(a) Live plants provided for in subpart A of part 6 of schedule 1 of the 1985 Tariff Schedules of the United States (the “TSUS”);
(b) Fresh or chilled vegetables provided for in items 135.03 through 138.46 of the TSUS;
(c) Fresh mushrooms provided for in item 144.10 of the TSUS;
(d) Fresh fruits provided for in items 146.10, 146.20, 146.30, 146.50 through 146.62, 146.90, 146.91, 147.03 through 147.44, 147.50 through 149.21 and 149.50 of the TSUS;
(e) Fresh cut flowers provided for in items 192.17, 192.18, and 192.21 of the TSUS; and
(f) Concentrated citrus fruit juice provided for in items 165.25, 165.29 and 165.36 of the TSUS.
§ 1540.22
Who may file request.
A request under this subpart may be filed by an entity, including a firm, or group or workers, trade association, or certified or recognized union which is representative of a domestic industry producing a perishable product like or directly competitive with a perishable product that such entity claims is being imported from Israel into the United States at a reduced duty or duty-free under the provisions of a trade agreement between the United States and Israel entered into under section 102(b)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to such domestic industry.
§ 1540.23
Contents of request.
A request for emergency action under section 404 of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984 shall be submitted in duplicate to the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Such request shall be supported by appropriate information and data and shall include to the extent possible:
(a) A description of the imported perishable product(s) allegedly causing, or threatening to cause, serious injury;
(b) Data showing that the perishable product allegedly causing, or threatening to cause, serious injury is being imported from Israel in increased quantities as compared with imports of the same product from Israel during a previous representative period of time (including a statement of why the period selected by the petitioner should be considered to be representative);
(c) Evidence of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry substantially caused by the increased quantities of imports of the product from Israel; and
(d) A statement indicating why emergency action would be warranted under section 404 (including all available evidence that the injury caused by the increased quantities of imports from Israel would be relieved by the withdrawal of the reduction of the duty or elimination of the duty-free treatment provided to the product under the trade agreement). A copy of the petition and the supporting evidence filed with the United States International Trade Commission under section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, must be provided with the request for emergency action.
§ 1540.24
Determination of the Secretary of Agriculture.
If the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to believe that the perishable product(s) which is the subject of a petition under this subpart is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to the domestic industry producing a perishable product like or directly competitive with the imported perishable product and that emergency action is warranted, the Secretary, within 14 days after the filing of the petition under § 1540.23 shall recommend to the President that the President take emergency action. If the Secretary determines not to recommend the imposition of emergency action, the Secretary, within 14 days after the filing of the petition, will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of such determination and will so advise the petitioner.
§ 1540.25
Information.
Persons desiring information from the Department of Agriculture regarding the Department's implementation of section 404 of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984 should address such inquiries to the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
§ 1540.26
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements contained in these regulations in accordance with 44 U.S.C. chapter 25, and OMB number 0551-0023 has been assigned.

# Subpart C—Emergency Relief From Duty-Free Imports of Perishable Products From Certain Andean Countries

# Authority:
Title II, sec. 204(e), Pub. L. 102-182, 105 Stat. 1239 (19 U.S.C. 3203(e)); 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
58 FR 16104, Mar. 25, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
For United States International Trade Commission regulations on investigations of import injury and the rules pertaining to the filing of a section 201 petition, see 19 CFR part 206.
§ 1540.40
Applicability of subpart.
This subpart applies to requests for emergency relief from duty-free imports of perishable products filed with the Department of Agriculture under section 204(e) of the Andean Trade Preference Act, title II of Public Law 102-182, 105 Stat. 1236 (19 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.
) (the “Act”).
§ 1540.41
Definitions.
(a)
Perishable product
means:
(1) Live plants and fresh cut flowers provided for in chapter 6 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS);
(2) Fresh or chilled vegetables provided in heading 0701 through 0709 (except subheading 0709.52.00) and heading 0714 of the HTS;
(3) Fresh fruit provided for in subheadings 0804.20 through 0810.90 (except citrons of subheadings 0805.90.00, tamarinds and kiwi fruit of subheading 0810.90.20, and cashew apples, mameyes colorados, sapodillas, soursops and sweetsops of subheading 0810.90.40) of the HTS; or
(4) Concentrated citrus fruit juice provided for in subheadings 2009.11.00, 2009.19.40, 2009.20.40, 2009.30.20, and 2009.30.60 of the HTS.
(b)
Beneficiary country
means any country listed in subsection 203(b)(1) of the Act with respect to which there is in effect a proclamation by the President designating such country as a beneficiary country for purposes of the Act.
§ 1540.42
Who may file request.
A request under this subpart may be filed by an entity, including a firm, or group of workers, trade association, or certified or recognized union which is representative of a domestic industry producing a perishable product like or directly competitive with a perishable product that such entity claims is being imported into the United States duty-free under the provisions of the Act from a beneficiary country(ies) in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to such domestic industry.
§ 1540.43
Contents of request.
(a) A request for emergency action under section 204(e) of the Act shall be submitted in duplicate to the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Such request shall be supported by appropriate information and data and shall include to the extent possible:
(1) A description of the imported perishable product(s) allegedly causing, or threatening to cause, serious injury;
(2) The beneficiary country(ies) of origin of the allegedly injurious imports;
(3) Data showing that the perishable product allegedly causing, or threatening to cause, serious injury is being imported from the designated beneficiary country(ies) in increased quantities as compared with imports of the same product from the designated beneficiary country(ies) during a previous representative period of time (including a statement of why the period used should be considered to be representative);
(4) Evidence of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry substantially caused by the increased quantities of imports of the product from the beneficiary country(ies); and
(5) A statement indicating why emergency action would be warranted under section 204(e) of the Act (including all available evidence that the injury caused by the increased quantities of imports from the beneficiary country(ies) would be relieved by the suspension of duty-free treatment accorded under the Act).
(b) A copy of the petition and the supporting evidence filed with the United States International Trade Commission under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, must be provided with the request for emergency action.
§ 1540.44
Submission of recommendations by the Secretary of Agriculture.
If the Secretary has reason to believe that the perishable product(s) which is the subject of a petition under § 1504.43 of this subpart is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to the domestic industry producing a perishable product like or directly competitive with the imported perishable product and that emergency action is warranted, the Secretary, within 14 days after the filing of the petition under § 1540.43 of this subpart, shall recommend to the President that the President take emergency action. If the Secretary determines not to recommend the imposition of emergency action, the Secretary within 14 days after the filing of the petition shall publish a notice of such determination and so advise the petitioner.
§ 1540.45
Information.
Persons desiring information from the Department of Agriculture regarding the Department's implementation
of section 204(e) of the Act should address such inquiries to the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Issued at Washington, DC this 19th day of March, 1993.
Pt. 1560

# PART 1560—PROCEDURES TO MONITOR CANADIAN FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLE IMPORTS
Sec.
1560.1
Scope.
1560.2
Definitions.
1560.3
Determination of fresh fruit or vegetable.
1560.4
Calculation of data to support imposition of temporary duty.
1560.5
Calculation of data to support removal of temporary duty.

# Authority:
Secs. 105 and 301(a) of the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement Implementation Act of 1988, Pub. L. 100-449 (102 Stat. 1855 and 1865-67).

# Source:
54 FR 1327, Jan. 13, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1560.1
Scope.
This part outlines the procedures that will be used by the Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service to monitor and inform the Secretary of Agriculture of data regarding the importation of fresh fruits and vegetables from Canada.
§ 1560.2
Definitions.
The following definitions shall be applicable to this part:
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
(b)
Average Monthly Import Price
means the average unit value for all shipments of a particular Canadian fresh fruit or vegetable imported into the United States from Canada during a particular calendar month based on official data from the U.S. Customs Service and/or the Bureau of Census, and shall be calculated by dividing the total value of the fresh fruit or vegetable imported in that month by the total quantity of the fresh fruit or vegetable imported in that month.
(c)
Average Planted Acreage
means the average of the annual planted acreage in the U.S. for a particular fresh fruit or vegetable for the preceding five years excluding the years with the highest and lowest acreages based on available data from agencies within the United States Department of Agriculture and data from appropriate state agencies, as required.
(d)
Canadian fresh fruit or vegetable
means a fresh fruit or vegetable that is a product of Canada as determined in accordance with the rules of origin set forth in section 202 of the U.S.-Canada Free-Trade Agreement Implementation Act of 1988.
(e)
Corresponding Five-Year Average Monthly Import Price
for a particular day means the average import price of a Canadian fresh fruit or vegetable imported into the United States from Canada, for the calendar month in which that day occurs, for that month in each of the preceding 5 years, excluding the years with the highest and lowest monthly averages.
(f)
F.O.B. Point of Shipment Price in Canada
means the daily average of prices of a particular Canadian fresh fruit or vegetable imported into the United States from Canada that are reported to the U.S. Customs Service at the U.S. border as part of the official documentation accompanying such shipments less freight costs where applicable.
(g)
Fresh Fruit or Vegetable
means a fruit or vegetable determined in accordance with § 1560.3 within one of the HS headings.
(h)
HS heading
means any of the following tariff headings of the Harmonized System (HS) as modified by the description for each heading:
HS tariff heading
Description
07.01
Potatoes, fresh or chilled.
07.02
Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.
07.03
Onions, shallots, garlic, leeks, and other alliaceous vegetables, fresh or chilled.
07.04
Cabbages, cauliflowers, kohlrabi, kale and similar edible brassicas, fresh or chilled.
07.05
Lettuce (lactica sativa) and chicory (cichorium spp.), fresh or chilled.
07.06
Carrots, salad beets or beetroot, salsify, celeriac, radishes and similar edible roots (excluding turnips), fresh or chilled.
07.07
Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or chilled.
07.08
Leguminous vegetables, shelled or unshelled, fresh or chilled.
07.09
Other vegetables (excluding truffles), fresh or chilled.
08.06.10
Grapes, fresh.
08.08.20
Pears and quinces, fresh.
08.09
Apricots, cherries, peaches (including nectarines), plums and sloes, fresh.
08.10
Other fruit (excluding cranberries and blueberries), fresh.
(i)
Import Price
means the unit value based on data available from the U.S. Customs Service of a particular Canadian fresh fruit or vegetable imported into the U.S. from Canada taking into account any other relevant data, as necessary.
(j)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(k)
United States
means the United States Customs Territory which includes the fifty states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
(l)
Wine Grape
means grapes of labrusca, vinifera or hybrid vinifera varieties used for making wine.
(m)
Working Day
means a day which falls on a Monday through Friday, excluding holidays observed by the United States Government and days in which the U.S. Customs Service is not operating.
§ 1560.3
Determination of fresh fruit or vegetable.
The specific group of articles that will be monitored as a particular fresh fruit or vegetable will be determined based on the practicability of monitoring at the eight digit subheading level of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. The determination of practicability will be made by the Administrator taking into account: (a) The availability of reliable volume and price data on imports from Canada and data on U.S. planted acreage, (b) market differentiation for the group of articles, and (c) such other factors as the Administrator determines to be appropriate.
§ 1560.4
Calculation of data to support imposition of temporary duty.
The Administrator will inform the Secretary when the following conditions are met with respect to a particular fresh fruit or vegetable imported into the United States from Canada:
(a) If for each of five consecutive working days the import price of the fresh fruit or vegetable is below ninety percent of the corresponding five-year average monthly import price for such fresh fruit or vegetable excluding the years with the highest and lowest corresponding monthly import price; and
(b) The planted acreage in the United States for such fresh fruit or vegetable based on the most recent data available is no higher than the average planted acreage over the preceding five years excluding the years with the highest and lowest planted acreages. For the purposes of calculating any planted acreage increase attributed directly to a reduction in wine grape planted acreage existing on October 4, 1987 shall be excluded.
§ 1560.5
Calculation of data to support removal of temporary duty.
During the time a temporary duty on a particular fresh fruit or vegetable is imposed pursuant to section 301(a) of the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement Implementation Act of 1988, the Administrator will inform the Secretary if the F.O.B. point of shipment price in Canada of such fresh fruit or vegetable exceeds, for five consecutive working days, ninety percent of the corresponding five-year average monthly import price excluding the years with the highest and lowest average corresponding monthly import price, adjusted to an F.O.B. point of shipment price, if necessary, for that fresh fruit or vegetable.
Pt. 1570

# PART 1570—EXPORT BONUS PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Sunflowerseed Oil Assistance Program and Cottonseed Oil Assistance Program Criteria
Sec.
1570.10
General statement.
1570.20
Criteria.

# Subpart B—SOAP and COAP Drawback Certification
1570.1100
Drawback certification.

# Source:
56 FR 42223, Aug. 27, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Sunflowerseed Oil Assistance Program and Cottonseed Oil Assistance Program Criteria

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 5663.
§ 1570.10
General statement.
This subpart sets forth the criteria to be considered in evaluating and approving proposals for initiatives to facilitate export sales under the Sunflowerseed Oil Assistance Program (SOAP) and Cottonseed Oil Assistance Program (COAP) administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS). These criteria are interrelated and will be considered together in order to select eligible countries for SOAP and COAP initiatives which will best meet the programs' objective. The objective of the programs is to encourage the sale of additional quantities of sunflowerseed oil and cottonseed oil in world markets at competitive prices. Under the SOAP and the COAP, bonuses are made available by FAS to enable exporters to meet prevailing world prices for sunflowerseed oil and cottonseed oil in targeted destinations. In the operation of the SOAP and the COAP, FAS will make reasonable efforts to avoid the displacement of usual marketings of U.S. agricultural commodities.
§ 1570.20
Criteria.
The criteria considered by FAS in reviewing proposals for SOAP and COAP initiatives will include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) The expected contribution which initiatives will make toward realizing U.S. agricultural export goals and, in particular, in developing, expanding, or maintaining markets for U.S. sunflowerseed and/or cottonseed oil;
(b) The subsidy requirements of proposed initiatives in relation to the sums made available to operate the programs in any given fiscal year; and
(c) The likelihood that sales facilitated by initiatives would have the unintended effect of displacing normal commercial sales of sunflowerseed and/or cottonseed oil.

# Subpart B—SOAP and COAP Drawback Certification

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 5676.
§ 1570.1100
Drawback certification.
An offer submitted by an exporter to FAS for an export bonus under the SOAP or the COAP must contain, in addition to any other information required by FAS, a certification stating the following: “None of the eligible commodity (sunflowerseed oil and/or cottonseed oil) has been or will be used as the basis for a claim of a refund, as drawback, pursuant to section 313 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1313) of any duty, tax, or fee imposed under Federal law on an imported commodity or product.” This certification must be signed by the exporter, if the exporter is an individual, or by a partner or officer of the exporter, if the exporter is a partnership or a corporation, respectively. FAS will reject any offer that does not contain the prescribed certification.
Pt. 1580

# PART 1580—TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FARMERS
Sec.
1580.101
General statement.
1580.102
Definitions.
1580.201
Petitions for trade adjustment assistance.
1580.202
Hearings, petition reviews, and amendments.
1580.203
Determination of eligibility and certification by the Administrator (FAS).
1580.301
Application for trade adjustment assistance.
1580.302
Technical assistance and services.
1580.303
Adjustment assistance payments.
1580.401
Subsequent year petition recertification.
1580.501
Administration.
1580.502
Maintenance of records, audits, and compliance.
1580.503
Recovery of overpayments.
1580.504
Debarment, suspension, and penalties.
1580.505
Appeals.
1580.506
Judicial review.
1580.602
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2401.

# Source:
75 FR 9089, Mar. 1, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1580.101
General statement.
This part provides regulations for the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for Farmers program as authorized by the Trade Act of 1974, amended by Subtitle C of Title I of the Trade Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-210), and re-authorized and modified by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5). The regulations establish procedures by which a group of producers of raw agricultural commodities or fishermen (jointly referred to as “producers”) can petition for certification of eligibility and through which individual producers covered by a certified petition can apply for technical assistance and cash benefits for the development and implementation of approved business adjustment plans.
§ 1580.102
Definitions.
As used in the part, the following terms mean:
Agricultural commodity
means any commodity in its raw or natural state; found in chapters 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 23, 24, 41, 51, and 52 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS).
Articles like
or
directly competitive
generally means products falling under the same HTS number used to identify the agricultural commodity in the petition. A “like” product means substantially identical in inherent or intrinsic characteristics, and the term “directly competitive” means articles that are substantially equivalent for commercial purposes (
i.e.,
adapted to the same uses and essentially interchangeable therefore). For fishery products, competition could be either from farm-raised or wild-caught products.
Authorized representative
means an entity that represents a group of agricultural commodity producers or fishermen.
Average price received by the producer
means the average of the 3 marketing year prices per unit received by the producer from the first level of sales for the commodity.
Cash receipts
mean the value of commodity marketings during the calendar year, irrespective of the year of production, as calculated by the Economic Research Service of the USDA.
Certification of eligibility
means the date on which the Administrator (FAS) announces in the
Federal Register
or by Department news release, whichever comes first, a certification of eligibility to apply for trade adjustment assistance.
Contributed importantly
means a cause which is important, but not necessarily more important than any other cause.
County price maintained by the Secretary
means a daily price obtained from a USDA agency for the commodity and producer location, except that weekly or monthly prices may be used if daily prices are unavailable.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs of the Farm Service Agency (FSA).
Family member
means an individual to whom a producer is related as spouse, lineal ancestor, lineal descendent, or sibling, including:
(1) Great grandparent;
(2) Grandparent;
(3) Parent;
(4) Children, including legally adopted children;
(5) Grandchildren;
(6) Great grandchildren;
(7) Sibling of the family member in the farming operation; and
(8) Spouse of a person listed in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition.
Filing period
means the dates during which petitions may be submitted, as published in the
Federal Register.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Group
means three or more producers who are not members of the same family.
Impacted area
means one or more States of the United States.
Marketing year
means the marketing season or year designated by the Administrator (FAS) with respect to an agricultural commodity. In the case of an agricultural commodity that does not have a designated marketing year, a calendar year will be used.
National average price
means the average price paid to producers for an agricultural commodity in a marketing year as determined by the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or
the National Marine Fisheries Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, when available, or when unavailable, as determined by the Administrator (FAS).
NIFA
means the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, the Federal agency within the U.S. Department of Agriculture which administers the Federal agricultural extension programs.
Producer
means a person who shares in the risk of producing an agricultural commodity and is entitled to a share of the commodity for marketing; including an operator, a sharecropper, or a person who owns or rents the land on which the commodity is produced; or a person who reports gain or loss from the trade or business of fishing on the person's annual Federal income tax return for the taxable year that most closely corresponds to the marketing year with respect to which a petition is filed.
Raw
or
natural state
means unaltered by any process other than cleaning, grading, coating, sorting, trimming, mixing, conditioning, drying, dehulling, shelling, chilling, cooling, blanching, irradiating, or fumigating.
State Cooperative Extension Service
means an organization established at the land-grant college or university under the Smith-Lever Act of May 8, 1914, as amended (7 U.S.C. 341-349); section 209(b) of the Act of October 26, 1974, as amended (D.C. Code, through section 31-1719(b)); or section 1444 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3221).
United States
means the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
Value of production
means the value of commodities produced during the crop year calculated as production times the marketing year average price. This may be equal to cash receipts when the crop year for the commodity runs from January through December.
§ 1580.201
Petitions for trade adjustment assistance.
(a) A group of producers in the United States or its authorized representative may file a petition for trade adjustment assistance.
(b) Filings may be written or electronic, as provided for by the Administrator (FAS), and submitted to FAS no later than the last day of the filing period announced in the
Federal Register.
Petitions received after this date will be returned to the sender.
(c) Petitions shall include the following information.
(1) Name, business address, phone number, and e-mail address (if available) of each producer in the group, or its authorized representative. The petition shall identify a contact person for the group.
(2) The agricultural commodity and its Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS) number.
(3) The production area represented by the group or its authorized representative. The petition shall indicate if the group is filing on behalf of all producers in the United States, or if it is filing solely on behalf of all producers in a specifically identified impacted area. In the latter case, at least one member of the group must reside in each State within the impacted area.
(4) The beginning and ending dates for the marketing year upon which the petition is based. A petition may be filed for only the most recent full marketing year for which data are available for national average prices, or quantity of production, or value of production, or cash receipts.
(5) A justification statement explaining why the petitioners should be considered eligible for adjustment assistance.
(6) Supporting information justifying the basis of the petition, including required data for the petitioned marketing year and the previous 3 marketing years.
(i) Whenever possible, the petitioners shall use national average data compiled by the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) or the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), to determine national average prices, or quantity of production, or value of production, or cash receipts. If NASS or NMFS has not compiled such data for the commodity, the petitioners shall provide alternative data for the marketing year under review and for the
previous 3 marketing years, and identify the source of the data. In such cases the Administrator (FAS) shall determine if the alternative data is acceptable.
(ii) If the petition is filed on behalf of producers in a specifically identified impacted area, the petitioners shall provide the national average prices or county prices if applicable, or quantity of production or value of production, or cash receipts for the petitioned commodity in the impacted area for the marketing year under review and for the previous 3 marketing years, and identification of the data source.
(iii) The Administrator (FAS) may request petitioners to provide records to support their data.
(d) Once the petition is received, the Administrator (FAS) shall determine if it meets the requirements of § 1580.201(c) of this part, and if so, publish notice in the
Federal Register
that a petition has been filed and that an investigation is being initiated. The notice shall identify the agricultural commodity, including any like or directly competitive commodities, the marketing year being investigated, the data being used, and the production area covered by the petition. The notice may also announce the scheduling of a public hearing, if requested by the petitioner. If the petition does not meet the requirements of § 1580.201(c) of this part, the Administrator (FAS) shall notify as soon as practicable the contact person or the authorized representative for the group of the deficiencies.
§ 1580.202
Hearings, petition reviews, and amendments.
(a) If the petitioner, or any other person found by the Administrator (FAS) to have a substantial interest in the proceedings, submits not later than 10 days after the date of publication of notice in the
Federal Register
under § 1580.201(d) of this part, a request in writing for a hearing, the Administrator (FAS) shall provide for a public hearing and afford such interested person an opportunity to be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard.
(b) If the petitioner or any other person having an interest in the proceedings takes issue with any of the information published in the
Federal Register
concerning the petition, such person may submit to the Administrator (FAS) their comments in writing or electronically for consideration by the Administrator (FAS) not later than 10 days after the date of publication of notice in the
Federal Register
under § 1580.201(d) of this part.
(c) A producer or group of producers that resides outside of the State or region identified in the petition filed under paragraph (a) of this section, may file a request to become a party to that petition not later than 15 days after the date that the notice is published in the
Federal Register
under § 1580.201(d) of this part. The Administrator (FAS) may amend the original petition to expand the impacted area and include the additional filer, or consider it a separate filing.
(d) The Administrator (FAS) shall publish in the
Federal Register
as soon as practicable any changes to the original notice resulting from any actions taken under this section.
§ 1580.203
Determination of eligibility and certification by the Administrator (FAS).
(a) As soon as practicable after the petition has been filed, but in any event not later than 40 days after that date, the Administrator (FAS) shall certify a group of producers as eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under this chapter if the Administrator (FAS) determines:
(1) At least one of the following:
(i) The national average price of the agricultural commodity produced by the group during the most recent marketing year for which data are available is less than 85 percent of the average of the national average price for the commodity in the 3 marketing years preceding such marketing year; or
(ii) The quantity of production of the agricultural commodity produced by the group during such marketing year is less than 85 percent of the average of the quantity of production of the commodity produced by the group in the 3 marketing years preceding such marketing year; or
(iii) The value of production of the agricultural commodity produced by
the group during such marketing year is less than 85 percent of the average value of production of the commodity produced by the group in the 3 marketing years preceding such marketing year; or
(iv) The cash receipts for the agricultural commodity produced by the group during such marketing year are less than 85 percent of the average of the cash receipts for the commodity produced by the group in the 3 marketing years preceding such marketing year;
(2) The volume of imports of articles like or directly competitive with the agricultural commodity produced by the group in the marketing year with respect to which the group files the petition increased compared to the average volume of such imports during the 3 marketing years preceding such marketing year; and
(3) The increase in such imports contributed importantly to the decrease in the national average price, or quantity of production, or value of production, or cash receipts for, the agricultural commodity.
(b) In any case in which there are separate classes of goods within an agricultural commodity, the Administrator (FAS) shall treat each class as a separate commodity in determining:
(1) Group eligibility;
(2) The national average price, or quantity of production, or value of production, or cash receipts; and
(3) The volume of imports.
(c) Upon making a determination, whether affirmative or negative, the Administrator (FAS) shall promptly publish in the
Federal Register
a summary of the determination, together with the reasons for making the determination.
(d) In addition, the Administrator (FAS) shall notify producers covered by a certification how to apply for adjustment assistance. Notification methods may include direct mailings to known producers, messages to directly affected producer groups and organizations, electronic communications, Web site notices on the Internet, use of broadcast print media, and transmittal through local USDA offices.
(e) Whenever a group of agricultural producers is certified as eligible to apply for assistance, the Administrator (FAS) shall notify NIFA, the Agricultural Marketing Service, and FSA who will assist in informing other producers about the TAA for Farmers program and how they may apply for trade adjustment assistance.
§ 1580.301
Application for trade adjustment assistance.
(a) Only producers covered by a certification of eligibility under § 1580.203 of this title, may apply for adjustment assistance.
(b) An eligible producer may submit an application for adjustment assistance by submitting to FSA a designated application form at any time after the certification date but not later than 90 days after the certification date. If the 90-day application period ends on a weekend or legal holiday, the producer may apply the following business day.
(c) When submitting an application, the producer shall provide sufficient documentation to establish that:
(1) The producer produced the agricultural commodity in the marketing year for which the petition is filed and in at least 1 of the 3 marketing years preceding that marketing year;
(2) There has been a decrease in the quantity of the agricultural commodity produced by the producer in the marketing year for which the petition is certified from the most recent prior marketing year preceding that marketing year for which data is available; or
(3) There has been a decrease in the price of the agricultural commodity based on:
(i) The price received for the agricultural commodity by the producer during the marketing year with respect to which the petition is filed from the average price for the commodity received by the producer in the 3 marketing years preceding that marketing year; or
(ii) The effective posted county price maintained by the Secretary for the agricultural commodity on the date on which the Administrator (FAS) accepts a petition for consideration as published in the
Federal Register
from
the average effective posted county level price for the commodity in the 3 marketing years preceding that date. If USDA prices are not available, prices from verifiable sources, including universities, cooperatives, or local markets, may be used.
(4) If a petition is certified with respect to a commodity not produced by the producer every year, the producer may establish the average price received by the producer for the commodity in the 3 marketing years preceding the year in which the petition is filed by using annual price data for the 3 most recent marketing years in which the producer produced the commodity.
(5) The producer must certify that the producer has not received cash benefits under the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Workers or Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms programs; or TAA for Farmers benefits based on the production of an agricultural commodity covered by another TAA for Farmers petition.
(d) The producer must certify that:
(1) For petitions certified for 2008 crops, their compliance with person determinations set forth in part 1400 of this title, subpart B and average adjusted gross income limitation requirements set forth in subpart G, effective July 18, 1996.
(2) For petitions certified for 2009 and subsequent crops, their average gross nonfarm income and average adjusted gross farm income meet requirements set forth in part 1400 of this title, subpart F, and payment limitation requirements set forth in part 1400 of this title, subparts A and B, effective December 29, 2008; and,
(e) The total amount of payments made to a producer for which the application was approved may not exceed the limitations on payments applicable to:
(1) For petitions certified for 2008 crops, counter-cyclical payments, set forth in part 1400 of this title, subpart A, effective July 18, 1996.
(2) For petitions certified for 2009 and subsequent crops, the counter-cyclical payments, including the Average Crop Revenue Election (ACRE) set forth in part 1400 of this title, subparts A and B, effective December 29, 2008; and
(f) If requested by FSA, a producer must provide documentation regarding average adjusted gross income and payment limitations.
§ 1580.302
Technical assistance and services.
(a)
Initial Technical Assistance:
A producer covered by a certification who has been determined by FSA to meet the requirements of § 1580.301 of this part, is eligible to receive Initial Technical Assistance through NIFA to be completed within 180 days of petition certification. Such assistance shall include information regarding:
(1) Improving the yield and marketing of that agricultural commodity, and
(2) The feasibility and desirability, of substituting one or more agricultural commodities for that agricultural commodity.
(b)
Intensive Technical Assistance:
Upon completion of Initial Technical Assistance, a producer is eligible to participate in Intensive Technical Assistance. Intensive Technical Assistance shall consist of:
(1) A series of courses to further assist the producer in improving the competitiveness of producing the agricultural commodity certified under § 1580.203 of this part, or another agricultural commodity, and
(2) Assistance in developing an initial business plan based on the courses completed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
During Intensive Technical Assistance:
NIFA shall deliver and the producer shall be required to attend a series of Intensive Technical Assistance workshops relevant to the circumstances of the producer.
(d)
Initial Business Plan:
Upon completion of the Initial and Intensive Technical Assistance, the producer shall be required to develop an Initial Business Plan recommended by NIFA and approved by the Administrator (FAS) before receiving an adjustment assistance payment. The Initial Business Plan will:
(1) Reflect the skills gained by the producer through the courses described in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) Demonstrate how the producer will apply those skills to the circumstances of the producer.
(e) Upon approval of the Initial Business Plan, the producer will receive an amount not to exceed $4,000 to implement the Initial Business Plan or develop a Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan.
(f) A producer who completes the Intensive Technical Assistance and whose Initial Business Plan has been approved shall be eligible, in addition to the amount under paragraph (e) of this section, for assistance in developing a Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan.
(g)
Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan:
The Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan shall:
(1) Include steps reasonably calculated to materially contribute to the economic adjustment of the producer to changing market conditions;
(2) Take into consideration the interests of the workers employed by the producer; and
(3) Demonstrate that the producer will have sufficient resources to implement the business plan.
(h) Upon recommendation by NIFA and approval of the producer's Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan by the Administrator (FAS), the producer shall be entitled to receive an amount not to exceed $8,000 to implement their Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan.
(i) The Initial Business Plan and Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan must be completed and approved within 36 months after a petition is certified.
(j) A producer shall not receive a combined total of more than $12,000 for the Initial Business Plan and the Long Term Business Adjustment Plan in the 36-month period following petition certification.
(k) The Administrator (FAS) may authorize supplemental assistance necessary to defray reasonable transportation and subsistence expenses incurred by a producer in connection with the initial technical assistance, if such initial technical assistance is provided at facilities that are not within normal commuting distance of the regular place of residence of the producer. NIFA and FSA will work with the producer and the Administrator (FAS) to facilitate application for and proper payment of reasonable allowable supplemental expenses. The Administrator (FAS) will not authorize payments to a producer:
(1) For subsistence expenses that exceed the lesser of:
(i) The actual per diem expenses for subsistence incurred by a producer; or
(ii) The prevailing per diem allowance rate authorized under Federal travel regulations; or
(2) For travel expenses that exceed the prevailing mileage rate authorized under the Federal travel regulations.
§ 1580.303
Adjustment assistance payments.
(a) If the Administrator (FAS) determines that insufficient appropriated fiscal year funds are available to provide maximum cash benefits to all eligible applicants, after having deducted estimated transportation and substance payments and administrative and technical assistance costs, the Administrator (FAS) shall prorate cash payments to producers for the approved initial and long-term business plans.
(b) Any producer who may be entitled to a payment may assign their rights to such payment in accordance with 7 CFR part 1404 or successor regulations as designated by the Department.
(c) In the case of death, incompetency, disappearance, or dissolution of a producer that is eligible to receive benefits in accordance with this part, such producer or producers specified in 7 CFR part 707 may receive such benefits.
§ 1580.401
Subsequent year petition recertification.
(a) Prior to the anniversary of the petition certification date:
(1) Groups or authorized representatives that provided the data to justify their initial petition shall provide the Administrator (FAS) data for the most recent marketing year, and
(2) The Administrator (FAS) shall make a determination with respect to the re-certification of petitions for the subsequent year by applying criteria as set forth in § 1580.203 of this part for the most recent marketing year.
(b) The Administrator (FAS) will promptly publish in the
Federal Register
the determination with the reasons for the determination.
(c) If a petition is re-certified, only eligible producers who did not receive training and cash benefits under this program may apply.
§ 1580.501
Administration.
(a) The petition process will be administered by FAS. FAS will publish in the
Federal Register
the filing dates for commodity groups to file petitions.
(b) FSA will administer the producer application and payment process.
(c) State and county FSA committees and representatives do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of this part.
(d) The technical assistance process and the recommendation for approval of all producer business plans will be under the general supervision of NIFA. NIFA may award the technical assistance and services to a state cooperative extension service.
(e) The Deputy Administrator may, in consultation with the Administrator, FAS, authorize the State and County committees to waive or modify non-statutory deadlines or other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements by applicants does not adversely affect the operation of the program.
§ 1580.502
Maintenance of records, audits, and compliance.
(a) Producers making application for benefits under this program must maintain accurate records and accounts that will document that they meet all eligibility requirements specified herein, as may be requested. Such records and accounts must be retained for 2 years after the date of the final payment to the producer under this program.
(b) At all times during regular business hours, authorized representatives of the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any agency thereof, the Comptroller General of the United States shall have access to the premises of the producer in order to inspect, examine, and make copies of the books, records, and accounts, and other written data as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Audits of certifications of average adjusted gross income may be conducted as necessary to determine compliance with the requirements of this subpart. As a part of this audit, income tax forms may be requested and if requested, must be supplied. If a producer has submitted information to FSA, including a certification from a certified public accountant or attorney, that relied upon information from a form previously filed with the Internal Revenue Service, such producer shall provide FSA a copy of any amended form filed with the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days of the filing.
(d) If requested in writing by the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any agency thereof, or the Comptroller General of the United States, the producer shall provide all information and documentation the reviewing authority determines necessary to verify any information or certification provided under this subpart, including all documents referred to in § 1580.301(c) of this part, within 30 days. Acceptable production documentation may be submitted by facsimile, in person, or by mail and may include copies of receipts, ledgers, income statements, deposit slips, register tapes, invoices for custom harvesting, records to verify production costs, contemporaneous measurements, truck scale tickets, fish tickets, landing reports, and contemporaneous diaries that are determined acceptable. Failure to provide necessary and accurate information to verify compliance, or failure to comply with this part's requirements, will result in ineligibility for all program benefits subject to this part for the year or years subject to the request.
§ 1580.503
Recovery of overpayments.
(a) If the Administrator (FAS) determines that any producer has received any payment under this program to which the producer was not entitled, or has expended funds received under this program for purpose that was not approved by the Administrator (FAS) such producer will be liable to repay such amount. The Administrator (FAS) may waive such repayment if it is determined that:
(1) The payment was made without fault on the part of the producer; and
(2) Requiring such repayment would be contrary to equity and good conscience.
(b) Unless an overpayment is otherwise recovered, or waived under paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator (FAS), shall recover the overpayment as a debt following the procedures in 7 CFR part 3. The requirement for demand and notice and opportunity for a hearing under the debt collection procedures in 7 CFR part 3 shall satisfy the notice and hearing requirements under 19 U.S.C. 2401f(c), and the appeal procedures in § 1580.505 of this part shall not apply to collection of overpayments
§ 1580.504
Debarment, suspension, and penalties.
(a)
Generally.
The regulations governing nonprocurement debarment and suspension, 2 CFR part 417, and requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance), 2 CFR part 421, apply to this part.
(b)
Additional specific suspension and debarment provision for this program.
In addition to any other debarment or suspension of a producer under paragraph (a) of this section, in connection with this program, if the Administrator (FAS) or a court of competent jurisdiction, determines that a producer:
(1) Knowingly has made, or caused another to make, a false statement or representation of a material fact, or
(2) Knowingly has failed, or caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact; and, as a result of such false statement or representation, or of such nondisclosure, such producer has received any payment under this program to which the producer was not entitled, the Administrator (FAS) shall suspend and debar such producer from any future payments under this program, as provided in 19 U.S.C. 2401f(b).
(c)
Criminal penalty.
Whoever makes a false statement of a material fact knowing it to be false, or knowingly fails to disclose a material fact, for the purpose of obtaining or increasing for himself or for any other producer any payments authorized to be furnished under this program shall be fined not more that $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both.
[75 FR 9089, Mar. 1, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 31938, May 28, 2020]
§ 1580.505
Appeals.
(a) A producer adversely affected by a determination with respect to their application for trade adjustment assistance under § 1580.301 of this part or with respect to the receipt of technical assistance or payments under § 1580.302 of this part may file a notice of appeal within 30 days of the date that the notification of the adverse determination was sent.
(b) A producer may not seek judicial review of any adverse decision under this paragraph without receiving a final determination pursuant to this paragraph.
§ 1580.506
Judicial review.
Any producer aggrieved by a final agency determination under this part may appeal to the U.S. Court of International Trade for a review of such determination in accordance with its rules and procedures.
§ 1580.602
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and been assigned OMB control number 0551-0040.
Pt. 1590

# PART 1590—UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE LOCAL AND REGIONAL FOOD AID PROCUREMENT PROGRAM
Sec.
1590.1
Purpose and applicability.
1590.2
Definitions.
1590.3
Eligibility and conflicts of interest.
1590.4
Application process.
1590.5
Agreements.
1590.6
Procurement of eligible commodities.
1590.7
Payments.
1590.8
Transportation of procured commodities.
1590.9
Entry, handling, and labeling of commodities and notification requirements.
1590.10
Damage to or loss of procured commodities.
1590.11
Claims for damage to or loss of procured commodities.
1590.12
Use of procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, and program income.
1590.13
Monitoring and evaluation requirements.
1590.14
Reporting and record keeping requirements.
1590.15
Subrecipients.
1590.16
Noncompliance with an agreement.
1590.17
Suspension and termination of agreements.
1590.18
Opportunities to object and appeals.
1590.19
Audit requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1726c.

# Source:
81 FR 43009, July 1, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1590.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a)(1) This part sets forth the general terms and conditions governing the award of funds by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) to recipients under the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Local and Regional Food Aid Procurement Program (USDA LRP Program). Under the USDA LRP Program, recipients use FAS-provided funds to purchase eligible commodities in developing countries and pay for associated administrative and operational costs related to the implementation of field-based projects in a foreign country pursuant to an agreement with FAS.
(2) Funds provided by FAS under the USDA LRP Program may be used to provide food assistance in the form of development assistance, an emergency response, or both through a field-based project. Field-based projects intended to provide development assistance will be implemented for a period of not less than one year. Food assistance may be provided under the USDA LRP Program through local and regional procurement, food vouchers, and cash transfers.
(3) FAS will consult with the United States Agency for International Development in the development and implementation of field-based projects that will provide food assistance in the form of an emergency response.
(b)(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR 400.1, USDA adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as USDA's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards.
(2) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and by this part, applies to the USDA LRP Program, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the USDA LRP Program.
(d) In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1726c(a)(4), assistance under the USDA LRP Program may be provided to a private voluntary organization or a cooperative that is, to the extent practicable, registered with the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development or to an intergovernmental organization, such as the World Food Program.
(e)(1) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, and the corresponding provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, apply to all awards by FAS under the USDA LRP Program to all recipients that are private voluntary organizations or cooperatives, including a private voluntary organization that is a foreign organization, as defined in 2 CFR 200.47, and a cooperative that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization. Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, and the corresponding provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and this part, apply only to awards by FAS to recipients that are private voluntary organizations or non-profit cooperatives but that are not foreign organizations. The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and the provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, do not apply to an award by FAS under the USDA LRP Program to a recipient that is a foreign public entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.46, and, therefore, they do not apply to an intergovernmental organization.
(2) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, and the corresponding provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, apply to all subawards to all subrecipients under this part, except in cases:
(i) Where the subrecipient is a foreign public entity; or
(ii) Where FAS determines that the application of these provisions to a subaward to a subrecipient that is a foreign organization would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government or would not be in the best interest of the United States.
§ 1590.2
Definitions.
These are definitions for terms used in this part. The definitions in 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented in 2 CFR part 400, are also applicable to this part, with the exception that, if a term that is defined in this section is defined differently in 2 CFR part 200 or part 400, the definition in this section will apply to such term as used in this part.
Activity
means a discrete undertaking within a project to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, that is specified in an agreement and is intended to fulfill a specific objective of the agreement.
Agreement
means a legally binding grant or cooperative agreement entered into between FAS and a recipient to implement a field-based project under the USDA LRP Program.
Codex Alimentarius
means the program of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization that was created to develop food standards, guidelines, and related texts, such as codes of practice to protect the health of consumers, ensure fair trade practices in the food trade, and promote the coordination of all food standards work undertaken by international governmental and nongovernmental organizations.
Cooperative
means a private sector organization whose members own and control the organization and share in its services and its profits and that provides business services and outreach in cooperative development for its membership.
Cost sharing or matching
means the portion of project expenses, or necessary goods and services provided to carry out the project, not paid or acquired with Federal funds. The term may include cash or in-kind contributions provided by recipients, subrecipients, foreign public entities, foreign organizations, or private donors.
Country of origin
means the country in which the procured commodities were produced.
Developing country
means a country that has a shortage of foreign exchange earnings and has difficulty meeting all of its food needs through commercial channels.
Development assistance
means an activity or activities that will enhance the availability of, access to, or the utilization of adequate food to meet the caloric and nutritional needs of populations suffering from chronic food insecurity, or enhance the ability of such populations to build assets to protect against chronic food insecurity.
Disaster
means an event or a series of events that creates a need for emergency food assistance by threatening or resulting in significantly decreased availability of, or access to, food or the erosion of the ability of populations to meet food needs. Disasters include, but are not limited to, natural events such as floods, earthquakes, and drought; crop failure; disease; civil strife and war; and economic turmoil. Disasters can be characterized as slow or rapid-onset. The situation caused by a disaster is a “food crisis.”
Disburse
means to make a payment to liquidate an obligation.
Eligible commodity
means an agricultural commodity, or the product of an agricultural commodity, that is produced in and procured from a developing country, and that meets each nutritional, quality, and labeling standard of the target country, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, as well as any other criteria specified in section § 1590.6(b).
Emergency response
means an activity that is designed to meet the urgent food and nutritional needs of those affected by acute or transitory food insecurity as a result of a disaster.
FAS
means the Foreign Agricultural Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
FAS-provided funds
means U.S. dollars provided under an agreement to a recipient, or through a subagreement to a subrecipient, for expenses for the
purchase, ocean and overland transportation, and storage and handling of the procured commodities; expenses involved in the administration, monitoring, and evaluation of the activities under the agreement; and operational costs related to the implementation of the field-based project under the agreement.
Field-based project or project
means the totality of the activities to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, to fulfill the objectives of an agreement. It can either stand alone or be an add-on component to another program that provides other forms of assistance to the food insecure.
Food assistance
means assistance that is provided to members of a targeted vulnerable group to meet their food needs.
Local procurement
means the procurement of food by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in the target country to assist beneficiaries within that same country. The use of food vouchers to obtain food under an agreement is a form of local procurement.
Overland transportation
means any transportation other than ocean transportation. It includes internal transportation within the target country and regional transportation within the target region.
Private voluntary organization
means a not-for-profit, nongovernmental organization (in the case of a United States organization, an organization that is exempt from Federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that receives funds from private sources, voluntary contributions of money, staff time, or in-kind support from the public, and that is engaged in or is planning to engage in voluntary, charitable, or development assistance activities (other than religious activities).
Procured commodities
means the eligible commodities that are procured by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, under an agreement.
Program Income
means funds received by a recipient or subrecipient as a direct result of carrying out an approved activity under an agreement. The term includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under a Federal award, the sale of items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees, and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Program income does not include FAS-provided funds or interest earned on such funds; or funds provided for cost sharing or matching contributions, refunds or rebates, credits, discounts, or interest earned on any of them.
Purchase country
means a developing country in which the procured commodities are purchased.
Recipient
means an entity that enters into an agreement with FAS and receives FAS-provided funds to carry out activities under the agreement. The term recipient does not include a subrecipient.
Regional procurement
means the procurement of food by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in a developing country that is located on the same continent as the target country. Regional procurement does not include the purchase of food in the target country.
Subrecipient
means an entity that enters into a subagreement with a recipient for the purpose of implementing in the target country activities described in an agreement. The term does not include an individual that is a beneficiary under the agreement.
Target country
means the developing country in which activities are implemented under an agreement.
Target region
means the continent on which the target country is located or nearby.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions
means cost sharing or matching contributions specifically pledged on a voluntary basis by an applicant in its proposal, which become binding as part of an agreement. Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions may be provided in the form of cash or in-kind contributions.
§ 1590.3
Eligibility and conflicts of interest.
(a)(1) A private voluntary organization or a cooperative is eligible to submit an application under this part to become a recipient under the USDA LRP Program if it is either registered with the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development or FAS has determined that such registration is impracticable. FAS will set forth specific eligibility information, including any factors or priorities that will affect the eligibility of an applicant or application for selection, in the full text of the applicable notice of funding opportunity posted on the U.S. Government Web site for grant opportunities.
(2) FAS may give preference for funding to eligible entities that have, or are working toward, projects under the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program established under section 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-1).
(b) Applicants, recipients, and subrecipients must comply with policies established by FAS pursuant to 2 CFR 400.2(a), and with the requirements in 2 CFR 400.2(b), regarding conflicts of interest.
§ 1590.4
Application process.
(a) An applicant seeking to enter into an agreement with FAS must submit an application, in accordance with this section, that sets forth its proposal to carry out activities under the USDA LRP Program in a proposed target country(ies). An application must contain the items specified in paragraph (b) of this section and any other items required by the notice of funding opportunity and must be submitted electronically to FAS at the address set forth in the notice of funding opportunity.
(b) An applicant must include the following items in its application:
(1) A completed Form SF-424, which is a standard application for Federal assistance;
(2) An introduction and impact analysis, as specified in the notice of funding opportunity;
(3) A plan of operation that contains the elements specified in the notice of funding opportunity;
(4) A summary line item budget and a budget narrative that indicate:
(i) The amount(s) of any FAS-provided funds, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions that the applicant proposes to use to fund:
(A) Administrative costs;
(B) Commodity procurement costs, including costs for locally and regionally procured commodities, and food vouchers;
(C) Transportation, storage, and handling costs; and
(D) Activity costs;
(ii) Where applicable, how the applicant's indirect cost rate will be applied to each type of expense; and
(iii) The amount of funding that will be provided to each proposed subrecipient under the agreement;
(5) A project-level results framework that outlines the changes that the applicant expects to accomplish through the proposed project and is based on the USDA LRP Program-level results framework;
(6) Unless otherwise specified in the notice of funding opportunity, an evaluation plan that describes the proposed design, methodology, and time frame of the project's evaluation activities, and how the applicant intends to manage these activities, and that will include a baseline study, interim evaluation, final evaluation, and any applicable special studies; and
(7) Any additional required items set forth in the notice of funding opportunity.
(c) Each applicant (unless the applicant has an exception approved by FAS under 2 CFR 25.110(d)) is required to:
(1) Be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) before submitting its application;
(2) Provide a valid unique entity identifier in its application; and
(3) Continue to maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by a Federal awarding agency.
§ 1590.5
Agreements.
(a) After FAS approves a proposal by an applicant, FAS will negotiate an agreement with the applicant. The agreement will set forth the obligations of FAS and the recipient.
(b) The agreement will specify the general information required in 2 CFR 200.210(a), as applicable.
(c) The agreement will incorporate general terms and conditions, pursuant to 2 CFR 200.210(b), as applicable.
(d) To the extent that this information is not already included in the agreement pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the agreement will also include the following:
(1) A plan of operation, which will include the following:
(i) The objectives to be accomplished under the project;
(ii) A detailed description of each activity to be implemented;
(iii) The target country(ies) and the areas of the target country(ies) in which the activities will be implemented;
(iv) The method(s) and criteria for selecting the beneficiaries of the activities;
(v) Any contributions for cost sharing or matching, including cash and non-cash contributions, that the recipient expects to receive from non-FAS sources that:
(A) Are critical to the implementation of the activities; or
(B) Enhance the implementation of the activities;
(vi) Any subrecipient that will be involved in the implementation of the activities, and the criteria for selecting a subrecipient that has not yet been identified;
(vii) Any other governmental or nongovernmental entities that will be involved in the implementation of the activities; and
(viii) Any additional items specified by FAS during the negotiation of the agreement;
(2) Requirements relating to the procurement of the eligible commodities, as set forth in § 1590.6;
(3) A budget, which will set forth the maximum amounts of FAS-provided funds, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions that may be used for each line item; and
(4) Performance goals for the agreement, including a list of results to be achieved by the activities and corresponding indicators, targets, and time frames.
(e) The agreement will also include specific terms and conditions, and certifications and representations, including the following:
(1) The agreement will prohibit the use of the procured commodities, food vouchers, or cash transfers for any purpose other than food assistance;
(2) The agreement will prohibit the resale or transshipment of the procured commodities by the recipient to a country other than the target country specified in the agreement for so long as the recipient has title to such commodities;
(3) The recipient will assert that it has taken action to ensure that any eligible commodities that will be procured regionally will be imported free from all customs, duties, tolls, and taxes. The recipient must submit information to FAS to support this assertion;
(4) The recipient will assert that, to the best of its knowledge, the eligible commodities can be procured locally or regionally without a disruptive impact on farmers located in, or the economy of, the target country or any country in the target region. The recipient will also assert that, to the best of its knowledge, the eligible commodities can be procured without unduly disrupting world prices for agricultural commodities or normal patterns of commercial trade with foreign countries. The recipient must submit information to FAS to support these assertions; and
(5) The recipient will assert that adequate transportation and storage facilities are available in the target country to prevent spoilage or waste of the eligible commodities. The recipient must submit information to FAS to support these assertions.
(f) FAS may enter into a multicountry agreement.
(g) FAS may provide funds under a multiyear agreement contingent upon the availability of funds.
§ 1590.6
Procurement of eligible commodities.
(a)(1) When using funds provided by FAS under the USDA LRP Program to make a local or regional procurement of food, including through the use of food vouchers, the recipient, or a subrecipient, must procure eligible commodities.
(2) The agreement will specify the types of eligible commodities approved for procurement; the approved purchase country(ies); and the approved method(s) of procurement (local procurement, regional procurement, food vouchers, or a combination of these methods). The agreement will prohibit the recipient from procuring eligible commodities from any country not specified in the agreement or utilizing methods of procurement that differ from those approved in the agreement.
(b) In carrying out an agreement, the recipient must comply with the following requirements, as applicable, relating to the procurement of eligible commodities under the agreement:
(1) The recipient must procure eligible commodities at a reasonable market price with respect to the economy of the purchase country, as determined by FAS.
(2) If the recipient procures eligible commodities that are grains, legumes, and pulses, the commodities must meet the food safety standards of the target country; provided, however, that if the target country does not have food safety standards for grains, legumes, and pulses, then the recipient must ensure that such commodities meet the Codex Alimentarius Recommended International Code of Practice: General Principles of Food Hygiene CAC/RCP 1-1969 Rev 4-2003, including Annex
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) System and Guidelines.
(3) If the recipient procures eligible commodities that are food products other than grains, legumes or pulses, such as processed foods, fortified blended foods, and enriched foods, the commodities must comply, in terms of raw materials, composition, or manufacture, unless otherwise specified in the agreement, with the Codex Alimentarius Recommended International Code of Practice: General Principles of Food Hygiene CAC/RCP 1-1969 Rev 4-2003 including Annex
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) System and Guidelines.
(4) If the recipient procures eligible commodities that are cereals, groundnuts, or tree nuts, or food products derived from or containing cereals, groundnuts, or tree nuts, the commodities must be tested for aflatoxin and have their moisture content certified. The maximum acceptable total aflatoxin level is 20 parts per billion, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration action level for aflatoxin in human foods.
(5) If the recipient procures an unprocessed commodity, it must ensure that the commodity has been produced either in the target country or in another developing country within the target region.
(6) If the recipient purchases a processed commodity, it must ensure that the processing took place, and the primary ingredient has been produced, either in the target country or in another developing country within the target region. The primary ingredient is determined on the basis of weight in the case of solid foods, or volume in the case of liquids.
(7) If the recipient purchases eligible commodities through a competitive tender, the recipient must specify the minimally acceptable commodity specifications and food safety and quality assurance standards in the tender. Purchases that are made from commercial wholesalers in a local or regional market must meet the food safety and quality assurance standards specified in paragraphs (b)(2), (3) and (4) of this section.
(8) The recipient must enter into a contract that complies with this paragraph for every local or regional procurement of eligible commodities, other than through food vouchers, from a commodity vendor. The recipient must ensure that the contract between the recipient and the commodity vendor clearly specifies the country of origin and specific market(s) in which the procurement will take place, commodity safety and quality assurance standards, product specifications, price per metric ton, and delivery terms. Recipients will be required to make such
contracts available to FAS upon request.
(9) The recipient must enter into a contract with an established inspection service to survey and report on the safety, quality, and condition of all procured commodities, other than those procured through food vouchers, prior to their shipment and distribution. The recipient will be required to submit any survey reports or certificates issued by such inspection service to FAS upon request.
(10) The recipient must enter into a contract with each vendor expected to redeem food vouchers distributed under an agreement that specifies the conditions under which the vouchers will be redeemed for food. The recipient must ensure that beneficiaries use food vouchers to purchase eligible commodities that meet the food safety and quality assurance standards specified in paragraphs (b)(2), (3) and (4) of this section.
(c) The agreement will require the recipient to submit a procurement plan for FAS's approval within the time period specified in the agreement. The procurement plan will include time periods, broken down by month, for commodity procurement, delivery, and distribution and, where applicable, the distribution of food vouchers. The agreement will require the recipient to comply with the procurement plan, as approved by FAS, and will prohibit the recipient from making any changes to the procurement plan without obtaining the prior written approval of FAS.
§ 1590.7
Payments.
(a) If the agreement authorizes the payment of FAS-provided funds, FAS will generally provide the funds to the recipient on an advance payment basis, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.305(b). In addition, the following procedures will apply to advance payments:
(1) A recipient may request advance payments of FAS-provided funds, up to the total amount specified in the agreement. When making an advance payment request, a recipient must provide, for each agreement for which it is requesting an advance, total expenditures to date; an estimate of expenses to be covered by the advance; total advances previously requested, if any; the amount of cash on hand from the preceding advance; and, if necessary, a request to roll over any unused funds from the preceding advance to the current request period. The advance payment request must take into account any program income earned since the preceding advance.
(2) Whenever possible, the recipient should consolidate advance payment requests to cover anticipated cash needs for all food assistance program awards made by FAS to the recipient. A recipient may request advance payments with no minimum time required between requests.
(3) A recipient must minimize the amount of time that elapses between the transfer of funds by FAS and the disbursement of funds by the recipient. A recipient must fully disburse funds from the preceding advance before it submits a new advance request for the same agreement, with the exception that the recipient may request to retain the balance of any funds that have not been disbursed and roll it over into a new advance request if the new advance request is made within 90 days after the preceding advance was made.
(4) FAS will review all requests to roll over unexpended funds from the preceding advance that have not been disbursed and make a decision based on the merits of the request. FAS will consider factors such as the amount of funding that the recipient is requesting to roll over, the length of time that the recipient has been in possession of the funds, any unforeseen or extenuating circumstances, the recipient's history of performance, and findings from recent financial audits or compliance reviews.
(5) FAS will not approve any request for an advance or rollover of funds if the most recent financial report, as specified in the agreement, is past due, or if any required report, as specified in any open agreement between the recipient and FAS or the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), is more than three months in arrears.
(6)(i) A recipient must return to FAS any funds advanced by FAS that have not been disbursed as of the 91st day after the advance was made; provided, however, that paragraphs (a)(6)(ii) and
(iii) of this section will apply if the recipient submits a request to FAS before that date to roll over the funds into a new advance.
(ii) If a recipient submits a request to roll over funds into a new advance, and FAS approves the rollover of funds, such funds will be considered to have been advanced on the date that the recipient receives the approval notice from FAS, for the purposes of complying with the requirement in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section.
(iii) If a recipient submits a request to roll over funds into a new advance, and FAS does not approve the rollover of some or all of the funds, such funds must be returned to FAS.
(iv) If the recipient must return funds to FAS in accordance with paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the recipient must return the funds on the later of five business days after the 91st day after the funds were advanced, or five business days after the date on which the recipient receives notice from FAS that it has denied the recipient's request to roll over the funds; provided, however, that FAS may specify a different date for the return of funds in a written communication to the recipient.
(7) Except as may otherwise be provided in the agreement, the recipient must deposit and maintain in an insured bank account located in the United States all funds advanced by FAS. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies, or FAS determines that this requirement would constitute an undue burden. A recipient will not be required to maintain a separate bank account for advance payments of FAS-provided funds. However, a recipient must be able to separately account for the receipt, obligation, and expenditure of funds under each agreement.
(8) A recipient may retain, for administrative purposes, up to $500 per Federal fiscal year of any interest earned on funds advanced under an agreement. The recipient must remit to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, any additional interest earned during the Federal fiscal year on such funds, in accordance with the procedures in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(9).
(b) If a recipient is required to pay funds to FAS in connection with an agreement, the recipient must make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by FAS.
§ 1590.8
Transportation of procured commodities.
(a) The recipient must acquire all transportation of procured commodities under the USDA LRP Program. FAS will pay for the transportation, as provided for in the agreement, through an advance payment or reimbursement to the recipient.
(b) A recipient that acquires ocean transportation in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must comply with the requirements of 46 U.S.C. 55305, regarding carriage on U.S.-flag vessels.
(c) The recipient may only use the services of a transportation company that is legally operating in the target country or another country within the target region, and that would not have a conflict of interest in transporting the commodities.
(d) The recipient must declare in the transportation contract the point at which the ocean carrier or overland transportation company will take custody of the eligible commodities to be transported.
§ 1590.9
Entry, handling, and labeling of procured commodities and notification requirements.
(a) The recipient must make all necessary arrangements for receiving regionally procured commodities in the target country, including obtaining appropriate approvals for entry and transit. The recipient must make arrangements with the target country government for all regionally procured commodities to be imported and distributed free from all customs duties, tolls, and taxes, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.
(b) The recipient must, as provided in the agreement, arrange for transporting, storing, and distributing the procured commodities from the designated point and time where title to the commodities passes to the recipient.
(c) The recipient must store and maintain all of the procured commodities in good condition from the time of delivery at the port of entry or the point of receipt from the commodity vendor(s) until their distribution.
(d)(1) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of the procured commodities, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:
(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;
(ii) Contains the name of the procured commodities;
(iii) Contains the name of the country of origin;
(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture; and
(v) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.
(2) If a recipient distributes procured commodities that are prepackaged or not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the procured commodities, the country of origin, a statement indicating that the procured commodities are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.
(3) If a recipient distributes food vouchers or cash transfers, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes a statement indicating that the food vouchers or cash transfers are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture. The recipient must ensure that all paper vouchers or receipts for electronic vouchers are printed with a statement indicating that the vouchers are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture. The vouchers must also include a statement indicating that they must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.
(e) The recipient must ensure that signs are displayed at all activity implementation and commodity, food voucher, or cash transfer distribution sites to inform beneficiaries that funding for the project was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.
(f) The recipient must also ensure that all public communications in relation to the project, the activities, or the procured commodities, whether made through print, broadcast, digital, or other media, include a statement acknowledging that funding was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.
(g) FAS may waive compliance with one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section if a recipient demonstrates to FAS that the requirement presents a safety or security risk in the target country. If a recipient determines that compliance with a labeling or notification requirement poses an imminent threat of destruction of property, injury, or loss of life, the recipient must submit a waiver request to FAS as soon as possible. The recipient will not have to comply with such requirement during the period prior to the issuance of a waiver determination by FAS. A recipient may submit a written request for a waiver at any time after the agreement has been signed.
(h) In exceptional circumstances, FAS may, on its own initiative, waive one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section for programmatic reasons.
§ 1590.10
Damage to or loss of procured commodities.
(a) The recipient will be responsible for the procured commodities following the transfer of title to the procured commodities from the commodity vendor(s) to the recipient. FAS may require the recipient to purchase transportation insurance against commodity loss or damage.
(b) A recipient must inform FAS, in the manner and within the time period set forth in the agreement, of any damage to or loss of the procured commodities that occurs following the transfer of title to the procured commodities to the recipient. The recipient must take
all steps necessary to protect its interests and the interests of FAS with respect to any damage to or loss of the procured commodities that occurs after title has been transferred to the recipient.
(c) The recipient will be responsible for arranging for an independent cargo surveyor to inspect any procured commodities transported by ocean upon discharge from the vessel and to prepare a survey or outturn report. The report must show the quantity and condition of the procured commodities discharged from the vessel and must indicate the most likely cause of any damage noted in the report. The report must also indicate the time and place when the survey took place. All discharge surveys must be conducted contemporaneously with the discharge of the vessel, unless FAS determines that failure to do so was justified under the circumstances. For procured commodities shipped on a through bill of lading, the recipient must also obtain a delivery survey. All surveys obtained by the recipient must, to the extent practicable, be conducted jointly by the surveyor, the recipient, and the carrier, and the survey report must be signed by all three parties. The recipient must obtain a copy of each discharge or delivery survey report within 45 days after the completion of the survey. The recipient must make each such report available to FAS upon request, or in the manner specified in the agreement. FAS will reimburse the recipient for the reasonable costs of these services, as determined by FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement.
(d) When procured commodities are transported overland, the recipient will ensure that overland transportation contracts include a requirement that a loading and offloading report be prepared and provided to the recipient. The report must show the quantity and condition of the procured commodities loaded on the overland conveyance, as well as the time and place that the loading and offloading occurred. The recipient must obtain a copy of the report from the overland transportation company within 45 days after the completion of the commodity delivery. The recipient must make each such report available to FAS upon request, or in the manner specified in the agreement. FAS will reimburse the recipient for the reasonable costs of these services, as determined by FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement.
(e) If procured commodities are damaged or lost during the time that they are in the care of an ocean carrier or overland transportation company:
(1) The recipient must ensure that any reports, narrative chronology, or other commentary prepared by the independent cargo surveyor, and any such documentation prepared by a port authority, stevedoring service, or customs official, or an official of the transit or target country government or the transportation company, are provided to FAS;
(2) The recipient must provide to FAS the names and addresses of any individuals known to be present at the time of discharge or unloading, or during the survey, who can verify the quantity of damaged or lost procured commodities;
(3) If the damage or loss occurred with respect to a bulk shipment on an ocean carrier, the recipient must ensure that the independent cargo surveyor:
(i) Observes the discharge of the cargo;
(ii) Reports on discharging methods, including scale type, calibrations, and any other factors that may affect the accuracy of scale weights, and, if scales are not used, states the reason therefor and describes the actual method used to determine weight;
(iii) Estimates the quantity of cargo, if any, lost during discharge through carrier negligence;
(iv) Advises on the quality of sweepings;
(v) Obtains copies of port or vessel records, if possible, showing the quantity discharged; and
(vi) Notifies the recipient immediately if the surveyor has reason to believe that the correct quantity was not discharged or if additional services are necessary to protect the cargo; and
(4) If the damage or loss occurred with respect to a container shipment on an ocean carrier, the recipient must ensure that the independent cargo surveyor lists the container numbers and
seal numbers shown on the containers, indicates whether the seals were intact at the time the containers were opened, and notes whether the containers were in any way damaged.
(e) If the recipient has title to the procured commodities, and procured commodities valued in excess of $5,000 are damaged at any time prior to their distribution under the agreement, regardless of the party at fault, the recipient must immediately arrange for an inspection by a public health official or other competent authority approved by FAS and provide to FAS a certification by such public health official or other competent authority regarding the exact quantity and condition of the damaged commodities. The value of damaged procured commodities must be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities. The recipient must inform FAS of the results of the inspection and indicate whether the damaged procured commodities are:
(1) Fit for the use authorized in the agreement and, if so, whether there has been a diminution in quality; or
(2) Unfit for the use authorized in the agreement.
(f)(1) If the recipient has title to the procured commodities, the recipient must arrange for the recovery of that portion of the procured commodities designated as suitable for the use authorized in the agreement. The recipient must dispose of procured commodities that are unfit for such use in the following order of priority:
(i) Sale for the most appropriate use,
i.e.,
animal feed, fertilizer, industrial use, or another use approved by FAS, at the highest obtainable price;
(ii) Donation to a governmental or charitable organization for use as animal feed or another non-food use; or
(iii) Destruction of the procured commodities if they are unfit for any use, in such manner as to prevent their use for any purpose.
(2) The recipient must arrange for all U.S. Government markings to be obliterated or removed before the procured commodities are transferred by sale or donation under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g) A recipient may retain any proceeds generated by the disposal of the procured commodities in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section and must use the retained proceeds for expenses related to the disposal of the procured commodities and for activities specified in the agreement.
(h) The recipient must notify FAS immediately and provide detailed information about the actions taken in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, including the quantities, values, and dispositions of procured commodities determined to be unfit.
§ 1590.11
Claims for damage to or loss of procured commodities.
(a) The recipient will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the procured commodities after the transfer of title to the procured commodities from the commodity vendor(s) to the recipient.
(b) If the recipient has title to procured commodities that have been damaged or lost, and the value of the damaged or lost procured commodities is estimated to be in excess of $20,000, the recipient must:
(1) Notify FAS immediately and provide detailed information about the circumstances surrounding such damage or loss, the quantity of damaged or lost procured commodities, and the value of the damage or loss;
(2) Promptly upon discovery of the damage or loss, initiate a claim arising out of such damage or loss, including, if appropriate, initiating an action to collect pursuant to a commercial insurance contract;
(3) Take all necessary action to pursue the claim diligently and within any applicable periods of limitations; and
(4) Provide to FAS copies of all documentation relating to the claim.
(c) If the recipient has title to procured commodities that have been damaged or lost, and the value of the damaged or lost procured commodities is estimated to be $20,000 or less, the recipient must notify FAS in accordance with the agreement and provide detailed information about the damage or loss in the next report required to be filed under § 1590.14(e).
(d)(1) The value of a claim for lost procured commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities.
(2) The value of a claim for damaged procured commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities, less any funds generated if such commodities are sold in accordance with § 1590.10(f)(1).
(e) If FAS determines that a recipient has not initiated a claim or is not exercising due diligence in the pursuit of a claim, FAS may require the recipient to assign its rights to pursue the claim to FAS. Failure by the recipient to initiate a claim or exercise due diligence in the pursuit of a claim will be considered by FAS during the review of proposals for subsequent food assistance awards.
(f)(1) The recipient may retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims collection action initiated by it in accordance with this section, or recovered pursuant to any insurance policy or other similar form of indemnification, but such funds must be expended as provided for in the agreement or for other purposes approved in advance by FAS.
(2) FAS will retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims collection action initiated by it under this section; provided, however, that if the recipient paid for the transportation of the procured commodities or a portion thereof, FAS will use a portion of such funds to reimburse the recipient for such expense on a prorated basis.
§ 1590.12
Use of procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, and program income.
(a) A recipient must use the procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, interest, and program income in accordance with the agreement.
(b) A recipient must not use procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income for any activity or any expense incurred by the recipient or a subrecipient prior to the start date of the period of performance of the agreement or after the agreement is suspended or terminated, without the prior written approval of FAS.
(c) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of procured commodities on the basis of political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal or religious identity or affiliation of the potential consumers or beneficiaries.
(d) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of procured commodities by the military forces of any government or insurgent group without the specific authorization of FAS.
(e) A recipient must not use FAS-provided funds to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates country-specific economic sanction programs, as specified in the agreement.
(f) A recipient may sell the procured commodities only if the recipient is disposing of damaged procured commodities as specified in § 1590.10.
(g) A recipient must deposit and maintain all FAS-provided funds and program income in a bank account until they are used for a purpose authorized under the agreement or the FAS-provided funds are returned to FAS in accordance with § 1590.7(a)(6). The account must be insured unless it is in a country where insurance is unavailable. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or FAS determines that this requirement would constitute an undue burden. The recipient must comply with the requirements in § 1590.7(a)(7) with regard to the deposit of advance payments by FAS.
(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, a recipient may make adjustments within the agreement budget between direct cost line items without further approval, provided that the total amount of adjustments does not exceed ten percent of the Grand Total Costs, excluding any voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions, in the agreement budget. Adjustments beyond these limits require the prior approval of FAS.
(2) A recipient must not transfer any funds budgeted for participant support costs, as defined in 2 CFR 200.75, to other categories of expense without the prior approval of FAS.
(i) A recipient may use FAS-provided funds or program income to purchase real or personal property only if local law permits the recipient to retain title to such property. However, the recipient must not use FAS-provided funds or program income to pay for the acquisition, development, construction, alteration or upgrade of real property that is:
(1) Owned or managed by a church or other organization engaged exclusively in religious pursuits; or
(2) Used in whole or in part for sectarian purposes, except that a recipient may use FAS-provided funds or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of a structure located on such real property to the extent necessary to avoid spoilage or loss of procured commodities, but only if the structure is not used in whole or in part for any religious or sectarian purposes while the procured commodities are stored in it. If the use of FAS-provided funds or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of such a structure is not specifically provided for in the agreement, the recipient must not use the FAS-provided funds or program income for this purpose until it receives written approval from FAS.
(j) The recipient must comply with 2 CFR 200.321 when procuring goods and services in the United States. When procuring goods and services outside of the United States, the recipient should endeavor to comply with 2 CFR 200.321 where practicable.
(k) As provided for in the agreement, the recipient must enter into a written contract with each provider of goods, services, or construction work that is valued in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold. Each such contract must require the provider to maintain adequate records to account for all donated commodities, funds, or both furnished to the provider by the recipient. The recipient must submit a copy of the signed contracts to FAS upon request.
§ 1590.13
Monitoring and evaluation requirements.
(a) The recipient will be responsible for designing a performance monitoring plan for the project, obtaining written approval of the plan from FAS before putting it into effect, and managing and implementing the plan, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.
(b) The recipient must establish baseline values, annual targets, and life of activity targets for each performance indicator included in the recipient's approved performance monitoring plan, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.
(c) The recipient must inform FAS, in the manner and within the time period specified in the agreement, of any problems, delays, or adverse conditions that materially impair the recipient's ability to meet the objectives of the agreement. This notification must include a statement of any corrective actions taken or contemplated by the recipient, and any additional assistance requested from FAS to resolve the situation.
(d) The recipient will be responsible for designing an evaluation plan for the project, obtaining written approval of the plan from FAS before putting it into effect, and arranging for an independent third party to implement the evaluation, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. This evaluation plan will detail the evaluation purpose and scope, key evaluation questions, evaluation methodology, time frame, evaluation management, and cost. This plan will generally be based upon the evaluation plan that the recipient submitted to FAS as part of its application, pursuant to § 1590.4(b)(6), unless the notice of funding opportunity specified that an evaluation plan was not required to be included in the application. The recipient must ensure that the evaluation plan:
(1) Is designed using the most rigorous methodology that is appropriate and feasible, taking into account available resources, strategy, current knowledge and evaluation practices in the sector, and the implementing environment;
(2) Is designed to inform management, activity implementation, and strategic decision-making;
(3) Utilizes analytical approaches and methodologies, based on the questions to be addressed, project design, budgetary resources available, and level of rigor and evidence required, which may be implemented through methods such as case studies, surveys, quasi-experimental designs, randomized field experiments, cost-effectiveness analyses, implementation reviews, or a combination of methods;
(4) Adheres to generally accepted evaluation standards and principles;
(5) Uses participatory approaches that seek to include the perspectives of diverse parties and all relevant stakeholders; and
(6) Where possible, utilizes local consultants and seeks to build local capacity in evaluation.
(e)(1) Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the recipient must arrange for evaluations of the project to be conducted by an independent third party that:
(i) Is financially and legally separate from the recipient's organization; and
(ii) Has staff with demonstrated methodological, cultural and language competencies, and specialized experience in conducting evaluations of international development programs involving agriculture, trade, education, and nutrition.
(2) The recipient must provide a written certification to FAS that there is no real or apparent conflict of interest on the part of any recipient staff member or third party entity designated or hired to play a substantive role in the evaluation of activities under the agreement.
(f) FAS will be considered a key stakeholder in all evaluations conducted as part of the agreement.
(g)(1) The recipient is responsible for establishing the required financial and human capital resources for monitoring and evaluation of activities under the agreement. The recipient must maintain separate budgets for monitoring and evaluation, and separate budget line items for dedicated recipient monitoring and evaluation staff and independent third-party evaluation contracts.
(2) Personnel at the recipient's headquarters offices and field offices with specialized expertise and experience in monitoring and evaluation may be used by the recipient for dedicated monitoring and evaluation. Unless otherwise specified in the agreement or approved evaluation plan, all evaluations must be managed by the recipient's evaluation experts outside of the recipient's line management for the activities.
(h) FAS may independently conduct or commission an evaluation of a single agreement or an evaluation that includes multiple agreements. A recipient must cooperate, and comply with any demands for information or materials made in connection with any evaluation conducted or commissioned by FAS. Such evaluations may be conducted by FAS internally or by an FAS-hired external evaluation contractor.
§ 1590.14
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) A recipient must comply with the performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.327 through 200.329.
(b) The recipient must submit financial reports to FAS in accordance with the schedule provided in the agreement. Such reports must provide an accurate accounting of FAS-provided funds, interest earned, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions.
(c)(1) The recipient must submit performance reports to FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement. These reports must include the information required in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(2), including additional pertinent information regarding the recipient's progress, measured against established indicators, baselines, and targets, towards achieving the expected results specified in the agreement. This reporting must include, for each performance indicator, a comparison of actual accomplishments with the baseline and the targets established for the period. When actual accomplishments deviate significantly from targeted goals, the recipient must provide an explanation in the report.
(2) The recipient must ensure the accuracy and reliability of the performance data submitted to FAS in performance reports. At any time during the period of performance of the agreement, FAS may review the recipient's performance data to determine whether it is accurate and reliable. A recipient must comply with all requests made by FAS or an entity designated by FAS in relation to such reviews.
(d) Baseline, interim, and final evaluation reports are required for all agreements for development assistance projects, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. A rapid needs assessment and a final evaluation report are required for all agreements for emergency response projects, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. An interim evaluation report is not required for emergency response projects, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. The reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeline provided in the FAS-approved evaluation plan. Evaluation reports submitted to FAS will be made public in an effort to increase accountability and transparency and share lessons learned and best practices.
(e) A recipient must submit reports to FAS, using a form as prescribed by FAS, covering the receipt, handling, and disposition of the procured commodities and, if applicable, food vouchers and cash transfers. Such reports must be submitted to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement, until all of the procured commodities and, if applicable, food vouchers and cash transfers have been distributed and such disposition has been reported to FAS.
(f) If requested by FAS, the recipient must provide to FAS additional information or reports relating to the agreement.
(g) If a recipient requires an extension of a reporting deadline, it must ensure that FAS receives an extension request at least five business days prior to the reporting deadline. FAS may decline to consider a request for an extension that it receives after this time period. FAS will consider requests for reporting deadline extensions on a case by case basis and make a decision based on the merits of each request. FAS will consider factors such as unforeseen or extenuating circumstances and past performance history when evaluating requests for extensions.
(h) A recipient must retain records and permit access to records in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337. The date of submission of the final expenditure report, as referenced in 2 CFR 200.333, will be the final date of submission of the reports required by paragraph (e) of this section, as prescribed by FAS. The recipient must retain copies of and make available to FAS all sales receipts, contracts, or other documents related to the procurement of eligible commodities, as well as records of dispatch received from ocean carriers or overland transportation companies.
§ 1590.15
Subrecipients.
(a) A recipient may utilize the services of a subrecipient to implement activities under the agreement if this is provided for in the agreement. The subrecipient may receive procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, program income, or other resources from the recipient for this purpose. The recipient must enter into a written subagreement with the subrecipient and comply with the applicable provisions of 2 CFR 200.331. The recipient must provide a copy of each subagreement to FAS, in the manner set forth in the agreement, prior to the transfer of any procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, or program income to the subrecipient.
(b) The recipient must include the following requirements in the subagreement:
(1) The subrecipient is required to comply with the applicable provisions of this part and 2 CFR parts 200 and 400. The applicable provisions are those that relate specifically to subrecipients, as well as those relating to non-Federal entities that impose requirements that would be reasonable to pass through to subrecipients because they directly concern the implementation of one or more activities under the agreement. If there is a question about whether a particular provision is applicable, FAS will make the determination.
(2) The subrecipient is prohibited from using FAS-provided funds to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates country-specific economic sanction programs, as specified in the agreement.
(3) The subrecipient must pay to the recipient the value of any procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, or program income that are not used in accordance with the subagreement, or that are lost, damaged, or misused as a result of the subrecipient's failure to exercise reasonable care.
(4) In accordance with § 1590.19 and 2 CFR 200.501(h), a description of the applicable compliance requirements and the subrecipient's compliance responsibility. Methods to ensure compliance may include pre-award audits, monitoring during the agreement, and post-award audits.
(c) The recipient must monitor the actions of a subrecipient as necessary to ensure that procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, and program income provided to the subrecipient are used for authorized purposes in compliance with applicable U.S. Federal laws and regulations and the subagreement and that performance indicator targets are achieved for both activities and results under the agreement.
§ 1590.16
Noncompliance with an agreement.
If a recipient fails to comply with a Federal statute or regulation or the terms and conditions of the agreement, and FAS determines that the noncompliance cannot be remedied by imposing additional conditions, FAS may take one or more of the actions set forth in 2 CFR 200.338, including initiating a claim as a remedy. FAS may also initiate a claim against a recipient if the procured commodities are damaged or lost, or the FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income are misused or lost, due to an action or omission of the recipient.
§ 1590.17
Suspension and termination of agreements.
(a) An agreement or subagreement may be suspended or terminated in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338 or 200.339. FAS may suspend or terminate an agreement if it determines that:
(1) One of the bases in 2 CFR 200.338 or 200.339 for termination or suspension by FAS has been satisfied;
(2) The continuation of the assistance provided under the agreement is no longer necessary or desirable; or
(3) Storage facilities are inadequate to prevent spoilage or waste, or distribution of the procured commodities will result in substantial disincentive to, or interference with, domestic production or marketing in the target country.
(b) If an agreement is terminated, the recipient:
(1) Is responsible for the security and integrity of any undistributed procured commodities and must dispose of such commodities only as agreed to by FAS; and
(2) Must comply with the closeout and post-closeout procedures specified in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.343 and 200.344.
§ 1590.18
Opportunities to object and appeals.
(a) FAS will provide an opportunity to a recipient to object to, and provide information and documentation challenging, any action taken by FAS pursuant to § 1590.16. FAS will comply with any requirements for hearings, appeals, or other administrative proceedings to which the recipient is entitled under any other statute or regulation applicable to the action involved. In the absence of such other requirements, the requirements set forth in this section will apply.
(b) The recipient must submit its objection in writing, along with any documentation, to the FAS official specified in the agreement within 30 days after the date that FAS notified the recipient that FAS was taking the action being challenged. This official will endeavor to notify the recipient of his or her determination within 60 days after the date that FAS received the recipient's written objection.
(c) The recipient may appeal the determination of the official to the Administrator, FAS. An appeal must be in writing and be submitted to the Office of the Administrator within 30
days after the date of the initial determination by the FAS official. The recipient may submit additional documentation with its appeal.
(d) The Administrator will base the determination on appeal upon information contained in the administrative record and will endeavor to make a determination within 60 days after the date that FAS received the appeal. The determination of the Administrator will be the final determination of FAS. The recipient must exhaust all administrative remedies contained in this section before pursuing judicial review of a determination by the Administrator.
§ 1590.19
Audit requirements.
(a) Subpart F, Audit requirements, of 2 CFR part 200 applies to recipients and subrecipients under this part other than those that are for-profit entities, foreign public entities, or foreign organizations.
(b) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total of at least the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards from FAS, is required to obtain an audit. Such a recipient or subrecipient has the following two options to satisfy this requirement:
(1)(i) A financial related audit (as defined in the Government Auditing Standards, GPO Stock #020-000-00-265-4) of the agreement or subagreement, in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, if the recipient or subrecipient receives Federal awards under only one FAS program; or
(ii) A financial related audit of all Federal awards from FAS, in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, if the recipient or subrecipient receives Federal awards under multiple FAS programs; or
(2) An audit that meets the requirements contained in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.
(c) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total that is less than the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards from FAS, is exempt from requirements for a non-Federal audit for that year, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, but it must make records available for review by appropriate officials of Federal agencies.
(d) FAS may require an annual financial audit of an agreement or subagreement when the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 is not met. In that case, FAS must provide funds under the agreement for this purpose, and the recipient or subrecipient, as applicable, must arrange for such audit and submit it to FAS.
(e) When a recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization is required to obtain a financial audit under this section, it must provide a copy of the audit to FAS within 60 days after the end of its fiscal year.
(f) FAS, the USDA Office of Inspector General, or the U.S. Government Accountability Office may conduct or arrange for additional audits of any recipients or subrecipients, including for-profit entities and foreign organizations. Recipients and subrecipients must promptly comply with all requests related to such audits. If FAS conducts or arranges for an additional audit, such as an audit with respect to a particular agreement, FAS will fund the full cost of such an audit, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.503(d).
Pt. 1599

# PART 1599—McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
Sec.
1599.1
Purpose and applicability.
1599.2
Definitions.
1599.3
Eligibility and conflicts of interest.
1599.4
Application process.
1599.5
Agreements.
1599.6
Local and regional procurement of commodities.
1599.7
Payments.
1599.8
Transportation of donated or procured commodities.
1599.9
Entry, handling, and labeling of donated or procured commodities and notification requirements.
1599.10
Damage to or loss of donated or procured commodities.
1599.11
Claims for damage to or loss of donated or procured commodities.
1599.12
Use of donated or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, and program income.
1599.13
Monitoring and evaluation requirements.
1599.14
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
1599.15
Subrecipients.
1599.16
Noncompliance with an agreement.
1599.17
Suspension and termination of agreements.
1599.18
Opportunities to object and appeals.
1599.19
Audit requirements.
1599.20
Paperwork Reduction Act.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1736o-1.

# Source:
84 FR 64973, Nov. 26, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1599.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a) This part sets forth the general terms and conditions governing the award of donated commodities and funds by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) to recipients under the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program (McGovern-Dole Program). Under the McGovern-Dole Program, recipients use the donated commodities, proceeds from any sale of such commodities, FAS-provided funds, and program income to implement a project in a foreign country pursuant to an agreement with FAS. When authorized by an agreement, a recipient may use FAS-provided funds to make a local or regional procurement of qualified commodities to implement such a project.
(b)(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR 400.1, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as USDA policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.
(2) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to the McGovern-Dole Program, except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the McGovern-Dole Program.
(d) In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1736o-1(e), assistance under the McGovern-Dole Program may be provided to private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, intergovernmental organizations, governments of developing countries and their agencies, and other organizations.
(e) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and the provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, do not apply to an award by FAS under the McGovern-Dole Program to a recipient that is a foreign public entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.46, and, therefore, they do not apply to a foreign government or its agency or an intergovernmental organization.
(f)(1) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all awards by FAS under the McGovern-Dole Program to all recipients that are private voluntary organizations, including a private voluntary organization that is a foreign organization, as defined in 2 CFR 200.47; cooperatives, including a cooperative that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization; or other organizations, including organizations that are for-profit entities or foreign organizations, but not including intergovernmental organizations.
(2) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all subawards to all subrecipients under this part, except in cases:
(i) Where the subrecipient is a foreign public entity; or
(ii) Where FAS determines that the application of the provisions in this part to a subaward to a subrecipient that is a foreign organization would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government or would not be in the best interest of the United States.
(g)(1) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies
only to awards by FAS to recipients that are private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, or other organizations, but that are not for-profit entities or foreign organizations.
(2) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to subawards to subrecipients under this part, except where the subrecipient is a for-profit entity, foreign public entity, or foreign organization.
(3) Audit requirements for recipients and subrecipients that are for-profit entities or foreign organizations are set forth in § 1599.19.
§ 1599.2
Definitions.
These are definitions for terms used in this part. The definitions in 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented in 2 CFR part 400, are also applicable to this part, with the exception that, if a term that is defined in this section is defined differently in 2 CFR part 200 or 400, the definition in this section will apply to such term as used in this part.
Activity
means a discrete undertaking within a project to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, that is specified in an agreement and is intended to fulfill a specific objective of the agreement.
Agreement
means a legally binding grant or cooperative agreement entered into between FAS and a recipient to implement a project under the McGovern-Dole Program.
Commodities
means agricultural commodities, or products of agricultural commodities, that:
(1) Are produced in the United States; or
(2)(i) Are produced in and procured from:
(A) A developing country that is a target country; or
(B) A developing country in the target region; and
(ii) At a minimum, meet each nutritional, quality, and labeling standard of the target country, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.
Cooperative
means a private sector organization whose members own and control the organization and share in its services and its profits and that provides business services and outreach in cooperative development for its membership.
Cost sharing or matching
means the portion of project expenses, or necessary goods and services provided to carry out a project, not paid or acquired with Federal funds. The term may include cash or in-kind contributions provided by recipients, subrecipients, foreign public entities, foreign organizations, or private donors.
Country of origin means
the country in which procured commodities were produced.
Developing country
means a country that has a shortage of foreign exchange earnings and has difficulty meeting all of its food needs through commercial channels.
Disburse
means to make a payment to liquidate an obligation.
Donated commodities
means the commodities produced in the United States that are donated by FAS to a recipient under an agreement. The term may include donated commodities that are used to produce a further processed product for use under the agreement.
FAS
means the Foreign Agricultural Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
FAS-provided funds
means U.S. dollars provided under an agreement to a recipient, or through a subagreement to a subrecipient, for expenses authorized in the agreement, such as expenses for the purchase of qualified commodities; any ocean transportation of the procured commodities; overland transportation, storage, and handling of the donated commodities or procured commodities; expenses involved in the administration, monitoring, and evaluation of the activities under the agreement; and the costs of activities conducted in the target country that would enhance the effectiveness of the activities implemented under the McGovern-Dole Program.
Food assistance
means assistance that is provided to members of a targeted vulnerable group to meet their food needs.
Local procurement
means the procurement of qualified commodities by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in the target country to assist beneficiaries within that same country.
McGovern-Dole Program
means the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program.
Overland transportation
means any transportation other than ocean transportation. It includes internal transportation within the target country and regional transportation within the target region.
Private voluntary organization
means a not-for-profit, nongovernmental organization (in the case of a United States organization, an organization that is exempt from Federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that receives funds from private sources, voluntary contributions of money, staff time, or in-kind support from the public, and that is engaged in or is planning to engage in voluntary, charitable, or development assistance activities (other than religious activities).
Procured commodities
means the qualified commodities that are procured by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, under an agreement.
Program income
means interest earned on proceeds from the sale of donated commodities, as well as funds received by a recipient or subrecipient as a direct result of carrying out an approved activity under an agreement. The term includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under a Federal award, the sale of items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Program income does not include proceeds from; FAS-provided funds or interest earned on such funds; or funds provided for cost sharing or matching contributions, refunds or rebates, credits, discounts, or interest earned on any of them.
Project
means the totality of the activities to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, to fulfill the objectives of an agreement.
Purchase country
means a developing country in which procured commodities are purchased.
Qualified commodities
means commodities that are produced in a developing country that is the target country or in the target region under an agreement, and that meet each nutritional, quality, and labeling standard of the target country, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, as well as any other criteria specified in § 1599.6(b).
Recipient
means an entity that enters into an agreement with FAS and receives donated commodities, FAS-provided funds, or both to carry out activities under the agreement. The term recipient does not include a subrecipient.
Regional procurement
means the procurement of qualified commodities by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in a developing country in the target region, other than the target country, to assist beneficiaries within the target country.
Sale proceeds
means funds received by a recipient from the sale of donated commodities.
Subrecipient
means an entity that enters into a subagreement with a recipient for the purpose of implementing in the target country activities described in an agreement. The term does not include an individual that is a beneficiary under the agreement.
Target country
means the foreign country in which activities are implemented under an agreement.
Target region
means the continent on which the target country is located.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions
means cost sharing or matching contributions specifically pledged on a voluntary basis by an applicant or recipient, which become binding as part of an agreement. Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions may be provided in the form of cash or in-kind contributions.
§ 1599.3
Eligibility and conflicts of interest.
(a) A private voluntary organization, a cooperative, or another organization
that is not an intergovernmental organization is eligible to submit an application under this part to become a recipient under the McGovern-Dole Program. FAS will set forth specific eligibility information, including any factors or priorities that will affect the eligibility of an applicant or application for selection, in the full text of the applicable notice of funding opportunity posted on the U.S. Government website for grant opportunities.
(b) Applicants, recipients, and subrecipients must comply with policies established by FAS pursuant to 2 CFR 400.2(a), and with the requirements in 2 CFR 400.2(b), regarding conflicts of interest.
§ 1599.4
Application process.
(a) An applicant seeking to enter into an agreement with FAS must submit an application, in accordance with this section, that sets forth its proposal to carry out activities under the McGovern-Dole Program in a proposed target country(ies). An application must contain the items specified in paragraph (b) of this section and any other items required by the notice of funding opportunity and must be submitted electronically to FAS at the address set forth in the notice of funding opportunity.
(b) An applicant must include the following items in its application:
(1) A completed Form SF-424, which is a standard application for Federal assistance;
(2) An introduction and a strategic analysis, which includes an impact analysis, as specified in the notice of funding opportunity;
(3) A plan of operation that contains the elements specified in the notice of funding opportunity;
(4) A summary line item budget and a budget narrative that indicate:
(i) The amounts of any sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions that the applicant proposes to use to fund:
(A) Administrative costs;
(B) Commodity procurement costs, where applicable, for qualified commodities obtained through local or regional procurement;
(C) Overland transportation, storage, and handling costs; and
(D) Activity costs;
(ii) Where applicable, how the applicant's indirect cost rate will be applied to each type of expense; and
(iii) The amount of funding that will be provided to each proposed subrecipient under the agreement;
(5) A project-level results framework that outlines the changes that the applicant expects to accomplish through the proposed project and is based on the McGovern-Dole Program-level results framework, as set forth in the notice of funding opportunity;
(6) Unless otherwise specified in the notice of funding opportunity, an evaluation plan that describes the proposed design, methodology, and time frame of the project's evaluation activities, and how the applicant intends to manage these activities, and that will include a baseline study, interim evaluation, final evaluation, and any applicable special studies; and
(7) Any additional required items set forth in the notice of funding opportunity.
(c) Each applicant (unless the applicant has an exception approved by FAS under 2 CFR 25.110(d)) is required to:
(1) Be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) before submitting its application;
(2) Provide a valid unique entity identifier in its application; and
(3) Continue to maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by a Federal awarding agency.
§ 1599.5
Agreements.
(a) After FAS approves an application by an applicant, FAS will negotiate an agreement with the applicant. The agreement will set forth the obligations of FAS and the recipient.
(b) The agreement will specify the general information required in 2 CFR 200.210(a), as applicable.
(c) The agreement will incorporate general terms and conditions, pursuant to 2 CFR 200.210(b), as applicable.
(d) To the extent that this information is not already included in the agreement pursuant to paragraphs (b)
and (c) of this section, the agreement will also include the following:
(1) The kind, quantity, and use of the donated commodities and an estimated commodity call forward schedule, with the month and year indicated for each expected commodity shipment;
(2) A plan of operation, which will include the following:
(i) The objectives to be accomplished under the project;
(ii) A detailed description of each activity to be implemented;
(iii) The target country(ies) and the areas of the target country(ies) in which the activities will be implemented;
(iv) The methods and criteria for selecting the beneficiaries of the activities;
(v) Any contributions for cost sharing or matching, including cash and non-cash contributions, that the recipient expects to receive from non-FAS sources that:
(A) Are critical to the implementation of the activities; or
(B) Enhance the implementation of the activities;
(vi) Any subrecipient that will be involved in the implementation of the activities, and the criteria for selecting a subrecipient that has not yet been identified;
(vii) Any other governmental or nongovernmental entities that will be involved in the implementation of the activities; and
(viii) Any processing, packaging, or repackaging of the donated commodities or procured commodities that will take place prior to the distribution, sale, or barter of the donated commodities, or the distribution of the procured commodities, by the recipient;
(3) A budget, which will set forth the maximum amounts of sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions that may be used for each line item, as well as other applicable budget requirements;
(4) Performance goals for the agreement, including a list of results, with long-term benefits where applicable, to be achieved by the activities and corresponding indicators, targets, and time frames;
(5) Requirements relating to any local or regional procurement of qualified commodities authorized in the agreement, as set forth in § 1599.6; and
(6) Any additional provisions specified by FAS during the negotiation of the agreement.
(e) The agreement will also include specific terms and conditions, and certifications and representations, including the following:
(1) The agreement will prohibit the sale, resale, or transshipment of the donated commodities or procured commodities by the recipient to a country not specified in the agreement, or the use of the donated commodities for other than domestic purposes, for as long as the recipient has title to such donated commodities or procured commodities;
(2) The agreement will prohibit the use of procured commodities, if applicable, for any purpose other than food assistance;
(3) The recipient will assert that it has taken action to ensure that any donated commodities that will be distributed to beneficiaries, and any qualified commodities that will be obtained through regional procurement, will be imported free from all customs, duties, tolls, and taxes; and all donated commodities and procured commodities will be distributed free from all customs, duties, tolls, and taxes. The recipient must submit information to FAS to support this assertion;
(4) The recipient will assert that, to the best of its knowledge, the importation, if applicable, and distribution of the donated commodities or procured commodities in the target country will not result in a substantial disincentive to or interference with domestic production or marketing in that country. The recipient must submit information to FAS to support this assertion;
(5) The recipient will assert that, to the best of its knowledge, any sale or barter of the donated commodities will not displace or interfere with any sales of United States commodities that may otherwise be made to or within the target country. The recipient must submit information to FAS to support this assertion; and
(6) The recipient will assert that adequate transportation and storage facilities will be available in the target country at the time of the arrival of the donated commodities, or any procured commodities obtained through regional procurement, to prevent spoilage or waste of the donated commodities or procured commodities. The recipient must submit information to FAS to support this assertion.
(f) FAS may enter into a multicountry agreement in which donated commodities are delivered to one country and activities are carried out in another.
(g) FAS may provide donated commodities and FAS-provided funds under a multiyear agreement contingent upon the availability of commodities and funds.
§ 1599.6
Local and regional procurement of commodities.
(a)(1) An agreement may authorize a recipient to use FAS-provided funds to procure qualified commodities, through a local or regional procurement or both, to implement a project. The provisions of this section will apply in such a situation.
(2) The agreement will specify the types of qualified commodities approved for procurement; the approved purchase country(ies); and the approved method(s) of procurement (local procurement, regional procurement, or a combination of these methods). The agreement will prohibit the recipient from procuring qualified commodities from any country not specified in the agreement or utilizing methods of procurement that differ from those approved in the agreement.
(b) In carrying out an agreement, the recipient must comply with the following requirements, as applicable, relating to the procurement of qualified commodities under the agreement:
(1) The recipient must procure qualified commodities at a reasonable market price with respect to the economy of the purchase country, as determined by FAS.
(2) If the recipient procures qualified commodities that are grains, legumes, or pulses, the commodities must meet the food safety standards of the target country; provided, however, that if the target country does not have food safety standards for grains, legumes, or pulses, as applicable, then the recipient must ensure that such commodities meet the food safety standards specified in the agreement.
(3) If the recipient procures qualified commodities that are food products other than grains, legumes or pulses, such as processed foods, fortified blended foods, and enriched foods, the commodities must comply, in terms of raw materials, composition, or manufacture, with the food safety standards specified in the agreement.
(4) If the recipient procures qualified commodities that are cereals, groundnuts, or tree nuts, or food products derived from or containing cereals, groundnuts, or tree nuts, the commodities must be tested for aflatoxin and have their moisture content certified. The maximum acceptable total aflatoxin level is 20 parts per billion, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration action level for aflatoxin in human foods.
(5) If the recipient procures an unprocessed commodity, it must ensure that the commodity has been produced either in the target country or in another developing country within the target region.
(6) If the recipient procures a processed commodity, it must ensure that the processing took place, and the primary ingredient has been produced, either in the target country or in another developing country within the target region. The primary ingredient is determined on the basis of weight in the case of solid foods, or volume in the case of liquids.
(7) If the recipient procures qualified commodities through a competitive tender, the recipient must specify the minimally acceptable commodity specifications and food safety and quality assurance standards in the tender. Purchases that are made from commercial wholesalers in a local or regional market must meet the food safety and quality assurance standards specified in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section.
(8) The recipient must enter into a contract that complies with this paragraph (b) for every local or regional procurement of qualified commodities
from a commodity vendor. The recipient must ensure that the contract between the recipient and the commodity vendor clearly specifies the country of origin and the specific market(s) in which the procurement will take place, commodity safety and quality assurance standards, product specifications, price per metric ton, and delivery terms. The recipient will be required to make such contract available to FAS upon request.
(9) The recipient must enter into a contract with an established inspection service to survey and report on the safety, quality, and condition of all procured commodities, prior to their shipment and distribution. The recipient will be required to submit any survey reports or certificates issued by such inspection service to FAS upon request.
(c) The agreement will require the recipient to submit a procurement plan for FAS's approval within the time period specified in the agreement. The procurement plan will include time periods, broken down by month, for commodity procurement, delivery, and distribution. The agreement will require the recipient to comply with the procurement plan, as approved by FAS, and will prohibit the recipient from making any changes to the procurement plan without obtaining the prior written approval of FAS.
§ 1599.7
Payments.
(a) If a recipient arranges for transportation in accordance with § 1599.8(b)(2), FAS will, as specified in the agreement, pay the costs of such transportation to the ocean carrier or to the recipient. The recipient must, as specified in the agreement, submit to FAS, arrange to be submitted to FAS, or maintain on file and make available to FAS, the following documents:
(1) The original, or a true copy, of each on board bill of lading indicating the freight rate and signed by the originating ocean carrier;
(2) For all non-containerized cargoes:
(i) A signed copy of the Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS) Official Stowage Examination Certificate;
(ii) A signed copy of the National Cargo Bureau Certificate of Readiness; and
(iii) A signed copy of the Certificate of Loading issued by the National Cargo Bureau or a similar qualified independent surveyor;
(3) For all containerized cargoes, a copy of the FGIS Container Condition Inspection Certificate;
(4) A signed copy of the U.S. Food Aid Booking Note or charter party covering ocean transportation of the cargo;
(5) In the case of charter shipments, a signed notice of arrival at the first discharge port, unless FAS has determined that circumstances that could not have been reasonably anticipated or controlled (force majeure) have prevented the ocean carrier's arrival at the first port of discharge; and
(6) A request for payment of freight, survey costs other than at load port, and other expenses approved by FAS.
(b) If the agreement specifies that some or all of the documents listed in paragraph (a) of this section will be submitted to FAS, then FAS will not render payment for transportation services until it has received all of the specified documents.
(c) If a recipient arranges for transportation in accordance with § 1599.8(b)(2), and the recipient uses a freight forwarder, the recipient must ensure that the freight forwarder is registered in the SAM and require the freight forwarder to submit the documents specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The recipient will ensure that the total commission or fees paid to intermediaries in the transportation procurement process will not exceed two and a half percent of the total transportation costs.
(d) In no case will FAS provide payment to a recipient for demurrage costs or pay demurrage to any other entity.
(e) If FAS has agreed to be responsible for the costs of transporting, storing, and distributing the donated commodities from the designated discharge port or point of entry, and if the recipient will bear or has borne any of these costs, in accordance with the agreement, FAS will either provide an advance payment or a reimbursement to the recipient in the amount of such costs, in the manner set forth in the agreement.
(f) If the agreement authorizes the payment of FAS-provided funds, FAS will generally provide the funds to the recipient on an advance payment basis, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.305(b). In addition, the following procedures will apply to advance payments:
(1) A recipient may request advance payments of FAS-provided funds, up to the total amount specified in the agreement. When making an advance payment request, a recipient must provide, for each agreement for which it is requesting an advance, total expenditures to date; an estimate of expenses to be covered by the advance; total advances previously requested, if any; the amount of cash on hand from the preceding advance; and, if necessary, a request to roll over any unused funds from the preceding advance to the current request period. The advance payment request must take into account any program income earned since the preceding advance.
(2) Whenever possible, a recipient should consolidate advance payment requests to cover anticipated cash needs for all food assistance program awards made by FAS to the recipient. A recipient may request advance payments with no minimum time required between requests.
(3) A recipient must minimize the amount of time that elapses between the transfer of funds by FAS and the disbursement of funds by the recipient. A recipient must fully disburse funds from the preceding advance before it submits a new advance request for the same agreement, with the exception that the recipient may request to retain a reasonable (minimal) balance of any funds that have not been disbursed and roll it over into a new advance request if the new advance request is made within 90 days after the preceding advance was made.
(4) FAS will review all requests to roll over funds from the preceding advance that have not been disbursed and make a decision based on the merits of the request. FAS will consider factors such as the amount of funding that a recipient is requesting to roll over, the length of time that the recipient has been in possession of the funds, any unforeseen or extenuating circumstances, the recipient's history of performance, and findings from recent financial audits or compliance reviews.
(5) FAS will not approve any request for an advance or rollover of funds if the most recent financial report, as specified in the agreement, is past due, or if any required report, as specified in any open agreement between the recipient and FAS or the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), is more than three months in arrears.
(6)(i) A recipient must return to FAS any funds advanced by FAS that have not been disbursed as of the 91st day after the advance was made; provided, however, that paragraphs (f)(6)(ii) and (iii) of this section will apply if the recipient submits a request to FAS before that date to roll over the funds into a new advance.
(ii) If a recipient submits a request to roll over funds into a new advance, and FAS approves the rollover of funds, such funds will be considered to have been advanced on the date that the recipient receives the approval notice from FAS, for the purposes of complying with the requirement in paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section.
(iii) If a recipient submits a request to roll over funds into a new advance, and FAS does not approve the rollover of some or all of the funds, such funds must be returned to FAS.
(iv) If a recipient must return funds to FAS in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, the recipient must return the funds by the later of five business days after the 91st day after the funds were advanced, or five business days after the date on which the recipient receives notice from FAS that it has denied the recipient's request to roll over the funds; provided, however, that FAS may specify a different date for the return of funds in a written communication to the recipient.
(7) Except as may otherwise be provided in the agreement, a recipient must deposit and maintain in an insured bank account located in the United States all funds advanced by FAS. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or FAS determines that the requirement in this paragraph (f)(7) would constitute an undue burden. A recipient will not be
required to maintain a separate bank account for advance payments of FAS-provided funds. However, a recipient must be able to separately account for the receipt, obligation, and expenditure of funds under each agreement.
(8) A recipient may retain, for administrative expenses, up to $500 per Federal fiscal year of any interest earned on funds advanced under an agreement. The recipient must remit to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, any additional interest earned during a Federal fiscal year on such funds, in accordance with the procedures in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(9).
(g) If a recipient is required to pay funds to FAS in connection with an agreement, the recipient must make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by FAS.
§ 1599.8
Transportation of donated or procured commodities.
(a) Shipments of donated commodities and procured commodities requiring ocean transportation are subject to the requirements of 46 U.S.C. 55305, regarding carriage on U.S.-flag vessels.
(b) Transportation of donated commodities and other goods such as bags that may be provided by FAS under the McGovern-Dole Program will be arranged for under a specific agreement in the manner determined by FAS. Such transportation will be arranged for by:
(1) FAS in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in 48 CFR chapter 1, the Agriculture Acquisition Regulation (AGAR) in 48 CFR chapter 4, and directives issued by the Director, Office of Procurement and Property Management, USDA; or
(2) The recipient, with payment by FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement.
(c) A recipient must arrange for all transportation of procured commodities. FAS will pay for the transportation, as provided for in the agreement, through an advance payment or reimbursement to the recipient.
(d) A recipient that is responsible for arranging for the transportation of donated commodities or procured commodities must declare in the transportation contract the point at which the ocean carrier or overland transportation company will take custody of the donated commodities or procured commodities to be transported.
(e) A recipient may only use the services of a transportation company that is legally operating in the country in which it will be transporting the donated commodities or procured commodities and that would not have a conflict of interest in transporting such donated commodities or procured commodities.
(f) A recipient that arranges for transportation in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may only use the services of a freight forwarder that is licensed by the Federal Maritime Commission and that would not have a conflict of interest in carrying out the freight forwarder duties. To assist FAS in determining whether there is a potential conflict of interest, the recipient must submit to FAS a certification indicating that the freight forwarder:
(1) Is not engaged in, and will not engage in, supplying commodities or furnishing ocean transportation or ocean transportation-related services for commodities provided under any McGovern-Dole Program agreement to which the recipient is a party; and
(2) Is not affiliated with the recipient and has not made arrangements to give or receive any payment, kickback, or illegal benefit in connection with its selection as an agent of the recipient.
§ 1599.9
Entry, handling, and labeling of donated or procured commodities and notification requirements.
(a) A recipient must make all necessary arrangements for receiving in the target country the donated commodities and any procured commodities obtained through regional procurement, including obtaining appropriate approvals for entry and transit. The recipient must make arrangements with the target country government for all donated commodities that will be distributed to beneficiaries, and all procured commodities, to be imported and distributed free from all customs duties, tolls, and taxes. A recipient is
encouraged to make similar arrangements, where possible, with the government of a country where donated commodities to be sold or bartered are delivered.
(b) A recipient must, as provided in the agreement, arrange for transporting, storing, and distributing the donated commodities or procured commodities from the designated point and time where title to the donated commodities or procured commodities passes to the recipient.
(c)(1) A recipient must store and maintain the donated commodities in good condition from the time of delivery at the port of entry or the point of receipt from the originating carrier until their distribution, sale, or barter.
(2) A recipient must store and maintain the procured commodities in good condition from the time of delivery at the port of entry or the point of receipt from the commodity vendor(s) until their distribution.
(d)(1) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:
(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;
(ii) Contains the name of the donated commodities;
(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities are furnished by the United States Department of Agriculture; and
(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, exchanged, or bartered.
(2) If a recipient arranges for the processing and repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:
(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;
(ii) Contains the name of the processed product;
(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product was made with commodities furnished by the United States Department of Agriculture; and
(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product must not be sold, exchanged, or bartered.
(3) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of procured commodities, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:
(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;
(ii) Contains the name of the procured commodities;
(iii) Contains the name of the country of origin;
(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities are furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture; and
(v) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.
(4)(i) If a recipient distributes donated commodities that are not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the donated commodities, a statement indicating that the commodities are being furnished by the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.
(ii) If a recipient distributes procured commodities that are prepackaged or not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the procured commodities, the country of origin, a statement indicating that the procured commodities are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.
(e) A recipient must ensure that signs are displayed at all activity implementation and commodity distribution sites to inform beneficiaries that funding for the project was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.
(f) A recipient must also ensure that all public communications relating to the project, the activities, or the donated commodities or procured commodities, whether made through print, broadcast, digital, or other media, include a statement acknowledging that funding was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.
(g) FAS may waive compliance with one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section if a recipient demonstrates to FAS that the requirement presents a safety or security risk in the target country. If a recipient determines that compliance with a labeling or notification requirement poses an imminent threat of destruction of property, injury, or loss of life, the recipient must submit a waiver request to FAS as soon as possible. The recipient will not have to comply with such requirement during the period prior to the issuance of a waiver determination by FAS. A recipient may submit a written request for a waiver at any time after the agreement has been signed.
(h) In exceptional circumstances, FAS may, on its own initiative, waive one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section for programmatic reasons.
§ 1599.10
Damage to or loss of donated or procured commodities.
(a)(1) FAS will be responsible for the donated commodities prior to the transfer of title to the donated commodities to the recipient. The recipient will be responsible for the donated commodities following the transfer of title to the donated commodities to the recipient. The title will transfer as specified in the agreement.
(2) A recipient will be responsible for the procured commodities following the transfer of title to the procured commodities from the commodity vendor(s) to the recipient. FAS may require the recipient to purchase transportation insurance against commodity loss or damage.
(b) A recipient must inform FAS, in the manner and within the time period set forth in the agreement, of any damage to or loss of the donated commodities or procured commodities that occurs following the transfer of title to the donated commodities or procured commodities to the recipient. The recipient must take all steps necessary to protect its interests and the interests of FAS with respect to any damage to or loss of the donated commodities or procured commodities that occurs after title has been transferred to the recipient.
(c) A recipient will be responsible for arranging for an independent cargo surveyor to inspect the donated commodities, and any procured commodities transported by ocean, upon discharge from the ocean carrier and to prepare a survey or outturn report. The report must show the quantity and condition of the donated commodities or procured commodities discharged from the ocean carrier and must indicate the most likely cause of any damage noted in the report. The report must also indicate the time and place when the survey took place. All discharge surveys must be conducted contemporaneously with the discharge of the ocean carrier, unless FAS determines that failure to do so was justified under the circumstances. For donated commodities or procured commodities shipped on a through bill of lading, the recipient must also obtain a delivery survey. All surveys obtained by the recipient must, to the extent practicable, be conducted jointly by the surveyor, the recipient, and the carrier, and the survey report must be signed by all three parties. The recipient must obtain a copy of each discharge or delivery survey report within 45 days after the completion of the survey. The recipient must make each such report available to FAS upon request, or in the manner specified in the agreement. FAS will reimburse the recipient for the reasonable costs of these services, as determined by FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement.
(d) When procured commodities are transported overland, the recipient will ensure that the overland transportation contract includes a requirement that a loading and offloading report be prepared and provided to the recipient. The report must show the quantity and condition of the procured commodities loaded on the overland conveyance, as well as the time and place that the loading and offloading occurred. The recipient must obtain a copy of the report from the overland transportation company within 45 days after the completion of the commodity delivery. The recipient must make each such report available to FAS upon request, or in
the manner specified in the agreement. FAS will reimburse the recipient for the reasonable costs of these services, as determined by FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement.
(e) If donated commodities or procured commodities are damaged or lost during the time that they are in the care of the ocean carrier or overland transportation company:
(1) The recipient must ensure that any reports, narrative chronology, or other commentary prepared by the independent cargo surveyor, and any such documentation prepared by a port authority, stevedoring service, or customs official, or an official of the transit or target country government or the transportation company, are provided to FAS;
(2) The recipient must provide to FAS the names and addresses of any individuals known to be present at the time of discharge or unloading, or during the survey, who can verify the quantity of damaged or lost donated commodities or procured commodities;
(3) If the damage or loss occurred with respect to a bulk shipment on an ocean carrier, the recipient must ensure that the independent cargo surveyor:
(i) Observes the discharge of the cargo;
(ii) Reports on discharging methods, including scale type, calibrations, and any other factors that may affect the accuracy of scale weights, and, if scales are not used, states the reason therefor and describes the actual method used to determine weight;
(iii) Estimates the quantity of cargo, if any, lost during discharge through carrier negligence;
(iv) Advises on the quality of sweepings;
(v) Obtains copies of port or ocean carrier records, if possible, showing the quantity discharged; and
(vi) Notifies the recipient immediately if the surveyor has reason to believe that the correct quantity was not discharged or if additional services are necessary to protect the cargo; and
(4) If the damage or loss occurred with respect to a container shipment on an ocean carrier, the recipient must ensure that the independent cargo surveyor lists the container numbers and seal numbers shown on the containers, indicates whether the seals were intact at the time the containers were opened, and notes whether the containers were in any way damaged.
(f) If a recipient has title to the donated commodities or procured commodities, and commodities valued in excess of $5,000 are damaged at any time prior to their distribution or sale under the agreement, regardless of the party at fault, the recipient must immediately arrange for an inspection by a public health official or other competent authority approved by FAS and provide to FAS a certification by such public health official or other competent authority regarding the exact quantity and condition of the damaged donated commodities or procured commodities. The value of damaged donated commodities must be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by FAS with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS. The value of damaged procured commodities must be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities. The recipient must inform FAS of the results of the inspection and indicate whether the damaged donated commodities or procured commodities are:
(1) Fit for the use authorized in the agreement and, if so, whether there has been a diminution in quality; or
(2) Unfit for the use authorized in the agreement.
(g)(1) If a recipient has title to the donated commodities or procured commodities, the recipient must arrange for the recovery of that portion of the donated commodities or procured commodities designated as fit for the use authorized in the agreement. The recipient must dispose of donated commodities or procured commodities that are unfit for such use in the following order of priority:
(i) Sale for the most appropriate use,
i.e.,
animal feed, fertilizer, industrial use, or another use approved by FAS, at the highest obtainable price;
(ii) Donation to a governmental or charitable organization for use as animal feed or another non-food use; or
(iii) Destruction of the donated commodities or procured commodities if they are unfit for any use, in such manner as to prevent their use for any purpose.
(2) A recipient must arrange for all U.S. Government markings to be obliterated or removed before the donated commodities or procured commodities are transferred by sale or donation under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(h) A recipient may retain any proceeds generated by the disposal of the donated commodities or procured commodities in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section and must use the retained proceeds for expenses related to the disposal of the donated commodities or procured commodities and for activities specified in the agreement.
(i) A recipient must notify FAS immediately and provide detailed information about the actions taken in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, including the quantities, values, and dispositions of donated commodities or procured commodities determined to be unfit.
§ 1599.11
Claims for damage to or loss of donated or procured commodities.
(a)(1) FAS will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the donated commodities prior to the transfer of title to the donated commodities to the recipient. The recipient will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the donated commodities after the transfer of title to the donated commodities.
(2) The recipient will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the procured commodities after the transfer of title to the procured commodities from the commodity vendor(s) to the recipient.
(b) If a recipient has title to donated commodities or procured commodities that have been damaged or lost, and the value of the damaged or lost commodities is estimated to be in excess of $20,000, the recipient must:
(1) Notify FAS immediately and provide detailed information about the circumstances surrounding such damage or loss, the quantity of damaged or lost commodities, and the value of the damage or loss;
(2) Promptly upon discovery of the damage or loss, initiate a claim arising out of such damage or loss, including, if appropriate, initiating an action to collect pursuant to a commercial insurance contract;
(3) Take all necessary action to pursue the claim diligently and within any applicable periods of limitations; and
(4) Provide to FAS copies of all documentation relating to the claim.
(c) If a recipient has title to donated commodities or procured commodities that have been damaged or lost, and the value of the damaged or lost commodities is estimated to be $20,000 or less, the recipient must notify FAS in accordance with the agreement and provide detailed information about the damage or loss in the next report required to be filed under § 1599.14(f)(1) or (2).
(d)(1) The value of a claim for lost donated commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by FAS with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS. The value of a claim for lost procured commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities.
(2) The value of a claim for damaged donated commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by FAS with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS, less any funds generated if such commodities are sold in accordance with § 1599.10(g)(1). The value of a claim for damaged procured commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities, less any funds generated if such commodities are sold in accordance with § 1599.10(g)(1).
(e) If FAS determines that a recipient has not initiated a claim or is not exercising due diligence in the pursuit of a claim, FAS may require the recipient to assign its rights to initiate or pursue the claim to FAS. Failure by the recipient to initiate a claim or exercise due diligence in the pursuit of a claim will be considered by FAS during the review of applications for subsequent food assistance awards.
(f)(1) A recipient may retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims collection action initiated by it in accordance with this section, or recovered pursuant to any insurance policy or other similar form of indemnification, but such funds must be expended in accordance with the agreement or for other purposes approved in advance by FAS.
(2) FAS will retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims collection action initiated by it under this section; provided, however, that if the recipient paid for the transportation of the donated commodities or procured commodities or a portion thereof, FAS will use a portion of such funds to reimburse the recipient for such expense on a prorated basis.
§ 1599.12
Use of donated or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, and program income.
(a) A recipient must use the donated commodities or procured commodities, any sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, and program income in accordance with the agreement.
(b) A recipient must not use donated commodities or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income for any activity or any expense incurred by the recipient or a subrecipient prior to the start date of the period of performance of the agreement or after the agreement is suspended or terminated, without the prior written approval of FAS.
(c) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities or procured commodities on the basis of political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal, or religious identity or affiliation of the potential consumers or beneficiaries.
(d) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities or procured commodities by the military forces of any government or insurgent group without the specific authorization of FAS.
(e) A recipient must not use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates a U.S. Government economic sanction program, as specified in the agreement.
(f)(1) A recipient may sell or barter donated commodities only if such sale or barter is provided for in the agreement or the recipient is disposing of damaged donated commodities as specified in § 1599.10(g). The recipient must sell donated commodities at a reasonable market price. The recipient must obtain approval of its proposed sale price from FAS before selling donated commodities. The recipient must use any sale proceeds, interest, program income, or goods or services derived from the sale or barter of the donated commodities only as provided in the agreement.
(2) A recipient may sell procured commodities only if the recipient is disposing of damaged procured commodities as specified in § 1599.10(g).
(g) A recipient must deposit and maintain all sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, and program income in a bank account until they are used for a purpose authorized under the agreement or the FAS-provided funds are returned to FAS in accordance with § 1599.7(f)(6). The account must be insured unless it is in a country where insurance is unavailable. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or FAS determines that the requirement in this paragraph (g) would constitute an undue burden. The recipient must comply with the requirements in § 1599.7(f)(7) with regard to the deposit of advance payments by FAS.
(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, a recipient may make adjustments within the agreement budget between direct cost line items without further approval, provided that the total amount of adjustments does not exceed the amount
specified in the agreement. Adjustments beyond the limits in this paragraph (h) require the prior approval of FAS.
(2) A recipient must not transfer any funds budgeted for participant support costs, as defined in 2 CFR 200.75, to other categories of expense without the prior approval of FAS.
(i) A recipient may use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to purchase real or personal property only if local law permits the recipient to retain title to such property. However, a recipient must not use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to pay for the acquisition, development, construction, alteration or upgrade of real property that is:
(1) Owned or managed by a church or other organization engaged exclusively in religious pursuits; or
(2) Used in whole or in part for sectarian purposes, except that a recipient may use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of a structure located on such real property to the extent necessary to avoid spoilage or loss of donated commodities or procured commodities, but only if the structure is not used in whole or in part for any religious or sectarian purposes while the donated commodities or procured commodities are stored in it. If the use of sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of such a structure is not specifically provided for in the agreement, the recipient must not use the sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income for this purpose until it receives written approval from FAS.
(j) A recipient must comply with 2 CFR 200.321 when procuring goods and services in the United States. When procuring goods and services outside of the United States, a recipient should endeavor to comply with 2 CFR 200.321 where practicable.
(k) A recipient must enter into a written contract with each provider of goods, services, or construction work that is valued at or above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold. Each such contract must require the provider to maintain adequate records to account for all donated commodities, funds, or both furnished to the provider by the recipient and to comply with any other applicable requirements that may be specified by FAS in the agreement. The recipient must submit a copy of each signed contract to FAS, as specified in the agreement.
§ 1599.13
Monitoring and evaluation requirements.
(a) A recipient will be responsible for designing a performance monitoring plan for the project, obtaining written approval of the plan from FAS before putting it into effect, and managing and implementing the plan, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.
(b) A recipient must establish baseline values, annual targets, and life of activity targets for each performance indicator included in the recipient's approved performance monitoring plan, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.
(c) A recipient must inform FAS, in the manner and within the time period specified in the agreement, of any problems, delays, or adverse conditions that materially impair the recipient's ability to meet the objectives of the agreement. This notification must include a statement of any corrective actions taken or contemplated by the recipient, and any additional assistance requested from FAS to resolve the situation.
(d) A recipient will be responsible for designing an evaluation plan for the project, obtaining written approval of the plan from FAS before putting it into effect, and arranging for an independent third party to implement the evaluation, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. This evaluation plan will detail the evaluation purpose and scope, key evaluation questions, evaluation methodology, time frame, evaluation management, and cost. This plan will generally be based upon the evaluation plan that the recipient submitted to FAS as part of its application, pursuant to § 1599.4(b)(6), unless the notice of funding opportunity specified that an evaluation plan was not required to be included in the application. The recipient must ensure that the evaluation plan:
(1) Is designed using the most rigorous methodology that is appropriate and feasible, taking into account available resources, strategy, current knowledge and evaluation practices in the sector, and the implementing environment;
(2) Is designed to inform management, activity implementation, and strategic decision-making;
(3) Utilizes analytical approaches and methodologies, based on the questions to be addressed, project design, budgetary resources available, and level of rigor and evidence required, which may be implemented through methods such as case studies, surveys, quasi-experimental designs, randomized field experiments, cost-effectiveness analyses, implementation reviews, or a combination of methods;
(4) Adheres to generally accepted evaluation standards and principles;
(5) Uses participatory approaches that seek to include the perspectives of diverse parties and all relevant stakeholders; and
(6) Where possible, utilizes local consultants and seeks to build local capacity in evaluation.
(e)(1) Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, a recipient must arrange for evaluations of the project to be conducted by an independent third party that:
(i) Is financially and legally separate from the recipient's organization; and
(ii) Has staff with demonstrated methodological, cultural, and language competencies, and specialized experience in conducting evaluations of international development programs involving agriculture, trade, education, and nutrition, provided that FAS may determine that, for a particular agreement, the staff of the independent third party evaluator is not required to have specialized experience in conducting evaluations of programs involving one or more of these four areas.
(2) A recipient must provide a written certification to FAS that there is no real or apparent conflict of interest on the part of any recipient staff member or third party entity designated or hired to play a substantive role in the evaluation of activities under the agreement.
(f) FAS will be considered a key stakeholder in all evaluations conducted as part of the agreement.
(g)(1) A recipient is responsible for establishing the required financial and human capital resources for monitoring and evaluation of activities under the agreement. The recipient must maintain a separate budget for monitoring and evaluation, with separate budget line items for dedicated recipient monitoring and evaluation staff and independent third party evaluation contracts.
(2) Personnel at the recipient's headquarters offices and field offices with specialized expertise and experience in monitoring and evaluation may be used by the recipient for dedicated monitoring and evaluation. Unless otherwise specified in the agreement or approved evaluation plan, all evaluations must be managed by the recipient's evaluation experts outside of the recipient's line management for the activities.
(h) FAS may independently conduct or commission an evaluation of a single agreement or an evaluation that includes multiple agreements. A recipient must cooperate, and comply with any demands for information or materials made in connection, with any evaluation conducted or commissioned by FAS. Such evaluations may be conducted by FAS internally or by an FAS-hired external evaluation contractor.
§ 1599.14
Reporting and record keeping requirements.
(a) A recipient must comply with the performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.327 through 200.329.
(b) A recipient must submit financial reports to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. Such reports must provide an accurate accounting of sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions.
(c)(1) A recipient must submit performance reports to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. These reports must
include the information required in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(2), including additional pertinent information regarding the recipient's progress, measured against established indicators, baselines, and targets, towards achieving the expected results specified in the agreement. This reporting must include, for each performance indicator, a comparison of actual accomplishments with the baseline and the targets established for the period. When actual accomplishments deviate significantly from targeted goals, the recipient must provide an explanation in the report.
(2) A recipient must ensure the accuracy and reliability of the performance data submitted to FAS in performance reports. At any time during the period of performance of the agreement, FAS may review the recipient's performance data to determine whether it is accurate and reliable. The recipient must comply with all requests made by FAS or an entity designated by FAS in relation to such reviews.
(d) Baseline, interim, and final evaluation reports are required for all agreements, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. The reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeline provided in the FAS-approved evaluation plan. Evaluation reports submitted to FAS may be made public in an effort to increase accountability and transparency and share lessons learned and best practices.
(e)(1) A recipient must, within 30 days after export of all or a portion of the donated commodities, submit evidence of such export to FAS, in the manner set forth in the agreement. The evidence may be submitted through an electronic media approved by FAS or by providing the carrier's on board bill of lading. The evidence of export must show the kind and quantity of commodities exported, the date of export, and the country where the commodities will be delivered. The date of export is the date that the ocean carrier carrying the donated commodities sails from the final U.S. load port.
(2) A recipient must, if it has obtained procured commodities requiring ocean transportation, within 30 days after export of all or a portion of the procured commodities, submit evidence of such export to FAS, in the manner set forth in the agreement. The evidence may be submitted through an electronic media approved by FAS or by providing the carrier's on board bill of lading. The evidence of export must show the kind and quantity of commodities exported, the date of export, and the country where the commodities will be delivered. The date of export is the date that the ocean carrier carrying the procured commodities sails from the load port in the target region.
(f)(1) A recipient must submit reports to FAS, using a form prescribed by FAS, covering the receipt, handling, and disposition of the donated commodities or procured commodities. Such reports must be submitted to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement, until all of the donated commodities or procured commodities have been distributed, sold or bartered and such disposition has been reported to FAS.
(2) If the agreement authorizes the sale or barter of donated commodities, the recipient must submit to FAS, using a form prescribed by FAS, reports covering the receipt and use of the sale proceeds when the donated commodities were sold, the goods and services derived from barter when the donated commodities were bartered, and program income. Such reports must be submitted to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement, until all of the sale proceeds and program income have been disbursed and reported to FAS. When reporting financial information, the recipient must include the amounts in U.S. dollars and the exchange rate if proceeds are held in local currency.
(g) If requested by FAS, a recipient must provide to FAS additional information or reports relating to the agreement.
(h) If a recipient requires an extension of a reporting deadline, it must ensure that FAS receives an extension request at least five business days prior to the reporting deadline. FAS may decline to consider a request for an extension that it receives after this time period. FAS will consider requests for reporting deadline extensions on a case by case basis and make a decision
based on the merits of each request. FAS will consider factors such as unforeseen or extenuating circumstances and past performance history when evaluating requests for extensions.
(i) A recipient must retain records and permit access to records in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337. The date of submission of the final expenditure report, as referenced in 2 CFR 200.333, will be the final date of submission of the reports required by paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, as prescribed by FAS. The recipient must retain copies of and make available to FAS all sales receipts, contracts, or other documents related to the procurement of qualified commodities, the sale or barter of donated commodities, and any goods or services derived from such barter, as well as records of dispatch received from ocean carriers or overland transportation companies.
§ 1599.15
Subrecipients.
(a) A recipient may utilize the services of a subrecipient to implement activities under the agreement if this is provided for in the agreement. The subrecipient may receive donated commodities or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, program income, or other resources from the recipient for this purpose. The recipient must enter into a written subagreement with the subrecipient and comply with the applicable provisions of 2 CFR 200.331. The recipient must provide a copy of such subagreement to FAS, in the manner set forth in the agreement, prior to the transfer of any donated commodities or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to the subrecipient.
(b) A recipient must include the following requirements in a subagreement:
(1) The subrecipient is required to comply with the applicable provisions of this part and 2 CFR parts 200 and 400. The applicable provisions are those that relate specifically to subrecipients, as well as those relating to non-Federal entities that impose requirements that would be reasonable to pass through to a subrecipient because they directly concern the implementation by the subrecipient of one or more activities under the agreement. If there is a question about whether a particular provision is applicable, FAS will make the determination.
(2) The subrecipient is prohibited from using sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates a U.S. Government economic sanction program, as specified in the agreement.
(3) The subrecipient must pay to the recipient the value of any donated commodities or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income that are not used in accordance with the subagreement, or that are lost, damaged, or misused as a result of the subrecipient's failure to exercise reasonable care.
(4) In accordance with § 1599.19 and 2 CFR 200.501(h), a description of the applicable compliance requirements and the subrecipient's compliance responsibility. Methods to ensure compliance may include pre-award audits, monitoring during the agreement, and post-award audits.
(c) A recipient must monitor the actions of a subrecipient as necessary to ensure that donated commodities or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, and program income provided to the subrecipient are used for authorized purposes in compliance with applicable U.S. Federal laws and regulations and the subagreement and that performance indicator targets are achieved for both activities and results under the agreement.
§ 1599.16
Noncompliance with an agreement.
If a recipient fails to comply with a Federal statute or regulation or the terms and conditions of the agreement, and FAS determines that the noncompliance cannot be remedied by imposing additional conditions, FAS may take one or more of the actions set forth in 2 CFR 200.338, including initiating a claim as a remedy. FAS may also initiate a claim against a recipient if the donated commodities or procured commodities are damaged or lost, or the sale proceeds, goods received through barter, FAS-provided
funds, interest, or program income are misused or lost, due to an action or omission of the recipient.
§ 1599.17
Suspension and termination of agreements.
(a) An agreement or subagreement may be suspended or terminated in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338 or 200.339. FAS may suspend or terminate an agreement if it determines that:
(1) One of the bases in 2 CFR 200.338 or 200.339 for termination or suspension by FAS has been satisfied;
(2) The continuation of the assistance provided under the agreement is no longer necessary or desirable; or
(3) Storage facilities are inadequate to prevent spoilage or waste, or distribution of the donated commodities or procured commodities will result in substantial disincentive to, or interference with, domestic production or marketing in the target country.
(b) If an agreement is terminated, the recipient:
(1) Is responsible for the security and integrity of any undistributed donated commodities or procured commodities and must dispose of such commodities only as agreed to by FAS;
(2) Is responsible for any sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income that have not been disbursed and must use or return them only as agreed to by FAS; and
(3) Must comply with any closeout and post-closeout procedures specified in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.343 and 200.344.
§ 1599.18
Opportunities to object and appeals.
(a) FAS will provide an opportunity to a recipient to object to, and provide information and documentation challenging, any action taken by FAS pursuant to § 1599.16. FAS will comply with any requirements for hearings, appeals, or other administrative proceedings to which the recipient is entitled under any other statute or regulation applicable to the action involved. For example, if the action taken by FAS pursuant to § 1599.16 is to initiate suspension or debarment proceedings as authorized under 2 CFR parts 180 and 417, then the requirements in 2 CFR parts 180 and 417 will apply instead of the requirements in this section. In the absence of other applicable statutory or regulatory requirements, the requirements set forth in this section will apply.
(b) The recipient must submit its objection in writing, along with any documentation, to the official specified in the agreement within 30 days after the date of FAS's written notification to the recipient of the FAS action being challenged. This official will endeavor to notify the recipient of his or her determination (the initial determination) within 60 days after the date that FAS received the recipient's written objection.
(c) The recipient may appeal the initial determination to the Administrator, FAS. An appeal must be in writing and be submitted to the Office of the Administrator within 30 days after the date of the initial determination. The recipient may submit additional documentation with its appeal.
(d) The Administrator will base the determination on appeal upon information contained in the administrative record and will endeavor to make a determination within 60 days after the date that FAS received the appeal. The determination of the Administrator will be the final determination of FAS. The recipient must exhaust all administrative remedies contained in this section before pursuing judicial review of a determination by the Administrator.
§ 1599.19
Audit requirements.
(a) The audit requirements in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200 apply to recipients and subrecipients under this part other than those that are for-profit entities, foreign public entities, or foreign organizations.
(b) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total of at least the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards, is required to obtain an audit. Such a recipient or subrecipient has the following two options to satisfy the requirement in this paragraph (b):
(1)(i) A financial audit of the agreement or subagreement, in accordance
with the Government Auditing Standards issued by the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO), if the recipient or subrecipient expends Federal awards under only one FAS program during such fiscal year; or
(ii) A financial audit of all Federal awards from FAS, in accordance with GAO's Government Auditing Standards, if the recipient or subrecipient expends Federal awards under multiple FAS programs during such fiscal year; or
(2) An audit that meets the requirements contained in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.
(c) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total that is less than the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards, is exempt from requirements under this section for an audit for that year, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section, but it must make records available for review by appropriate officials of Federal agencies.
(d) FAS may require an annual financial audit of an agreement or subagreement when the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 is not met. In that case, FAS must provide funds under the agreement for this purpose, and the recipient or subrecipient, as applicable, must arrange for such audit and submit it to FAS.
(e) When a recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization is required to obtain a financial audit under this section, it must provide a copy of the audit to FAS within 60 days after the end of its fiscal year.
(f) FAS, the USDA Office of Inspector General, or GAO may conduct or arrange for additional audits of any recipients or subrecipients, including for-profit entities and foreign organizations. Recipients and subrecipients must promptly comply with all requests related to such audits. If FAS conducts or arranges for an additional audit, such as an audit with respect to a particular agreement, FAS will fund the full cost of such an audit, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.503(d).
§ 1599.20
Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, and have been assigned OMB control number 0551-0035. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# FINDING AIDS
A list of current CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter XI
1200.200—1200.206 (Subpart D) Added
45305
1205.510 (b)(2) and (3) table revised
62547
1210.321 (f)(1) revised
56474
1210.403 (c) revised
56474
1210.501 Revised
56475
1210.502 Revised
56475
1216.15 Revised
16231
1216.21 Revised
16231
1216.40 (a) introductory text and (1) revised
16231
1217.40 (b)(1) and (i) through (iii) revised
45059
1250.510 Revised
62945
1260.141 (a) revised
39463
1260.172 (b)(2) revised
826
1260.172 Correction: Table 2 revised
4191
Chapter XIV
1400.1 (a)(1) and (f) revised; (a)(8) redesignated as (a)(9); (a)(6), (7), new (9), (b)(1), (3), and (4) amended; (a)(8) and (b)(5) added
52036
1400.2 (c) introductory text, (1), (f), and (h) amended
52036
1400.3 (b) amended
52037
1400.3 Correction: (b) amended
73602
1400.5 (b) introductory text, (3) introductory text, and (c) amended; (d) introductory text revised
52038
1400.6 (a) revised
52038
1400.7 Added
52038
1400.8 Amended
52038
1400.9 (a) introductory text amended
52038
1400.100 Removed
52038
1400.101 (a), (b)(2), (3) introductory text, and (c) amended
52038
1400.102 (a), (b) introductory text, and (c) amended
52038
1400.103 (a) amended
52038
1400.104 (a) introductory text, (1), (3) introductory text, (i), (ii), (4), (i) through (iv), (5) introductory text, (i) through (v), and (b) amended
52038
1400.105 (d) introductory text removed
52039
1400.106 (a) amended
52039
1400.201 (a) and (d)(3) amended
52039
1400.202 (c) introductory text amended; (c)(1) removed
52039
1400.203 (a)(1)(ii)C), (b) introductory text, (2), and (c) amended; (b)(1) revised
52039
1400.204 (a)(2)(iii) and (d) introductory text amended; (d)(1) revised
52039
1400.205 (e) introductory text amended; (e)(1) revised
52039
1400.206 (b) introductory text amended; (b)(1) revised
52039
1400.207 (a) introductory text, (1), and (b) amended
52039
1400.208 (b)(1) and (2) amended
52039
1400.209 (a), (b)(2), and (3) amended
52039
1400.210 Amended
52039
1400.212 Amended
52039
1400.213 Amended
52039
1400.214 Added
52040
1400.301 (Subpart D) Removed
52040
1400.401 (a), (b)(1), (2) introductory text, and (3) through (5) amended
52040
1400.402 (a)(1), (2), and (b) amended
52040
1400.500 (c) amended; (f) added
52040
1400.501 (a)(2) and (b) amended
52040
1400.503 Amended
52040
1400.601 Removed
52040
1400.601 Correction: added
73602
1400.602 (a)(1), (2) introductory text, (3) introductory text, (b), and (e) amended
52040
1403 Removed
36714
1412.3 Amended
16232
1416.2 (a) and (f) amended
10963
1416.3 (b)(3) and (4) amended; (b)(5) added
10963
1416.6 (a) revised; (c) amended
10963
1416.7 (a) amended
10963
1416.14 (b) added
10963
1416.102 Amended
10963
1416.103 (d)(5)(iii) amended; (g) removed; (h) through (j) redesignated as new (g) through (i); (d)(5) introductory text, (i), (ii), (f), and new (h) revised
10964
1416.104 (a)(5), (d), (e)(1), (2), and (f) removed; (e), (g), and (h) redesignated as new (d), (e), and new (f); (a)(3), (4), (c)(7), and new (d) amended
10964
1416.105 (c) removed; (d) through (f) redesignated as new (c) through (e)
10964
1416.106 (a) introductory text revised; (a)(2)(i), (7), (b) introductory text, and (d) amended; (e) removed; (f) redesignated as new (e)
10964
1416.107 Revised
10965
1416.109 (a) and (c) amended
10965
1416.110 (b) introductory text, (f) introductory text, and (2) amended; (n) removed; (o) redesignated as new (n)
10965
1416.201 (b) revised
10965
1416.202 Amended
10965
1416.203 (a)(2) introductory text and (i) amended
10965
1416.204 (a)(5) and (c)(9) amended; (c)(7) revised
10965
1416.205 (b)(2) amended
10966
1416.206 (a) removed; (b) and (c) redesignated as new (a) and (b); new (a) revised; new (b)(2) removed; new (b)(3) through (7) redesignated as (b)(2) through (6); new (b)(6) amended
10966
1416.207 (a) amended
10966
1416.301 (a) revised
10966
1416.302 Amended
10966
1416.304 (c)(1)(ii), (2), (4), and (e) revised; (d)(14) through (36) and (37) through (39) redesignated as (d)(16) through (38) and (40) and (42); (c)(3), new (d)(36) through new (38), and (f) amended; new (d)(14), new (15), and new (39) added
10966
1416.305 (a), (c), (f), (g) introductory text, (h) introductory text, (i) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (2)(ii), and (i)(4)(i) through (iv) revised; (b)(1), (2), (d)(4), (h)(1)(i), (i)(1)(i), (ii), (2) introductory text, (i), (3), and (4) introductory text amended; (k) removed
10967
1416.400 (a) amended
10968
1416.402 Amended
10968
1416.403 (g) amended
10968
1416.404 (a)(2) amended
10968
1416.405 (a) removed; (b) through (e) redesignated as new (a) through (d); new (a) amended
10968
1416.406 (a)(1)(i), (2)(i), and (j) amended
10968
1437.1 (b) revised; (c) amended
12218
1437.3 Amended
12218
1437.4 (a)(4)(i) and (c) revised; (a)(4)(ii) removed; (a)(4)(iii), (iv), (d), and (e) redesignated as new (a)(4)(ii), (iii), (e), and (f); new (d) added; new (e) amended
12218
1437.5 (b) introductory text and (d)(1) amended; (e) and (f) redesignated as (f) and (g); new (e) added
12219
1437.6 (a) introductory text, (2), (b)(1)(i), (c), (d), (f), and (g) amended; (e) and (h) revised
12219
1437.7 Heading, (b), (e), and (i) revised; (g), (j), (k), and (l) amended
12219
1437.8 (a) introductory text, (b)(1), (c)(1), and (2) amended; (c)(3) and (4) added
12220
1437.8 (a) introductory text amended
16232
1437.10 (b)(1)(viii), (ix), and (3)(v) redesignated as (b)(1)(ix), (x), and (3)(iv); new (b)(1)(viii) added; new (b)(1)(ix), (3)(iv), new (v), (d)(15), and (16) amended; (d)(17) added
12220
1437.11 (a), (b) introductory text, and (2) amended; (d)(2)(iii) revised
12220
1437.12 (b)(1) and (4) amended
12220
1437.16 (d) amended
12220
1437.108 Added
12220
1437.301 (d) removed
12221
1437.401 (f)(2) amended; (g) added
12221
1437.502 (b) and (c) amended
12221
1437.503 (a) amended
12221
1464 Added; interim
8137
1464.5 Correction: (c)(4) revised; (c)(5), (d), and (e) added; interim
15051
1466.1 (a)(2) through (4) revised
67647
1466.3 Amended
67647
1466.4 (a) revised
67647
1466.6 (d)(1) revised
67647
1466.7 (d) revised
67647
1466.20 (b)(2)(viii) amended; (b)(2)(ix) added; (b)(2)(xi) redesignated as (b)(2)(x)
67647
1466.31 (a) revised
67647
1466.32 (c) and (d) redesignated as (d) and (e); new (c) added
67648
1468 Revised; interim
571
1468 Regulation at 85 FR 571 comment period extended to 3-20-20
4191
1470.2 (c)(3) added; (d) introductory text revised
64002
1470.3 Amended
64002
1470.4 (c) introductory text revised
64002
1470.24 (a)(3) and (f)(4) revised
64002
1470.25 (c) amended
64003
1470.26 (a) and (c) revised
64003
1470.35 (a) amended
64003
1471 Authority citation revised
6420
1471.1 (b)(2) amended
6420
1471.2 Introductory text, (b) introductory text, (1), (2), and (c) introductory text amended; (c)(3) and (4) added
6420
1471.3 (a) through (c) amended; (d) added
6420
1471.4 (a)(1), (2), and (4) amended
6420
1471.10 (b)(2) amended
6421
1484 Revised
1084
1485 Revised
1732
Chapter XV
1530.111 (b) revised
31938
1580.504 (a) revised
31938
2021
7 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter XI
1205.20 Revised
20257
1205.26 (a)(1) and (2) revised
20257
1205.27 Revised
20257, 52399
1205.28 Amended
20258, 52399
1205.29 Revised
20258, 52399
1205.510 (b)(2) and (3) table revised
47543
1206.6 Revised; interim
11096
1206.8 Revised; interim
11096
1206.9 Revised; interim
11096
1206.11 Revised; interim
11096
1206.30 (a) and (b) revised; interim
11096
1206.31 (e) revised; (h) and (j) removed; (k) redesignated as new (h); interim
11097
1206.32 Revised; interim
11097
1206.34 (a) revised; interim
11097
1206.34 (a) revised
33494
1206.42 (b) through (d) revised; interim
11097
1206.43 (a) and (b) revised; interim
11097
1206.43 (a) revised
33494
1206.101 (c) through (e) revised; interim
11097
1206.108 Revised; interim
11098
1216.15 Revised; eff. 1-20-22
72151
1216.21 Revised; eff. 1-20-22
72151
1216.40 (a) introductory text and (1) revised; eff. 1-20-22
72151
1217.52 (b), (c), and (h) revised
11390
1218 Notification
37669
1218 Heading revised
72782
1218.13 Revised
72782
1218.40 (a) revised
72782
1218.41 (c) and (d) revised
72783
1218.42 Revised
72783
1220.201 (a) revised
61670
1223 Added
2892
1280.101 Revised; eff. 1-21-22
72514
1280.102 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.103 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.104 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.105 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.106 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.107 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.108 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.109 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.110 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.111 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.112 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.113 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.114 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.115 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.116 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.117 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.118 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.119 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.120 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.121 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.122 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.123 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.124 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.125 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.126 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.127 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.128 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.129 Removed; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.217 (a), (c), and (d) amended; (e) and (g) removed; (f) and (h) redesignated as new (e) and new (f); eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.218 Revised; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.220 (a) revised; eff. 1-21-22
72515
1280.402 (b) and (e)(1) revised; eff. 1-21-22
72516
1291 Removed
39941
Chapter XIV
1410.6 (e)(4)(ii) amended; (e)(4)(iii) removed
70705
1410.90 (c) introductory text amended
70705
1421.1 (e) amended
70705
1421.3 Amended
70705
1421.4 (h) removed
70705
1421.5 (c)(1) amended
70705
1421.9 (f) amended
70705
1421.102 (a)(1) revised
70705
1421.104 (a)(1) amended
70705
1421.110 Added
70705
1421.112 (b) introductory text amended
70705
1421.113 (a) revised
70705
1421.200 (e) amended
70706
1421.302 (d)(1) amended
70706
1421.304 (d) removed; (e) through (g) redesignated as (d) through (f)
70706
1421.409 Revised
70706
1421.416 (a)(1) revised
70706
1421.417 (a) amended
70706
1425.4 (a)(2) and (b)(2) revised
70706
1427.1 (d) amended
70706
1427.3 Amended
70706
1427.4 (a)(2)(iii) revised; (g) amended
70706
1427.10 (f)(2) amended
70706
1427.11 (a) introductory text amended
70706
1427.22 Added
70706
1427.23 (d) amended
70707
1427.100—1427.105 (Subpart C) Removed
54340
1427.160 (a) revised
70707
1427.1200 (b)(2) amended
70707
1427.1207 (a)(1), (2), and (c)(2) amended
70707
1430 Authority citation revised
70707
1430.402 Amended
70707
1430.403 (f) added
70707
1430.404 (a) revised; (b)(3), (e)(4), and (h) added
70707
1430.405 (a)(1), (2), (f) introductory text, (1), (2), and (g) amended; (a)(3) added
70707
1430.407 (a)(2) amended; (f) revised; (n) added
70707
1430.409 (b)(2) and (3) amended; (b)(4) added
70708
1430.411 (c)(3) revised
70708
1434.1 (a) amended
70708
1435.101 (a) and (b) amended
70708
1464.3 Amended
3744
1464.20 (b)(1) and (2) revised
3744
1464.21 (b)(5) and (7) amended; (b)(8) redesignated as (b)(9); new (b)(8) and (c)(4) added
3744
1464.22 (d)(11) and (12) redesignated as (d)(12) and (13); new (d)(11) added
3744
1464.25 (b)(2) amended
3744
1464.30 (d)(4) added
3744
1468.3 Amended
8130
1468.6 (a)(3)(iii) amended
8130
1468.20 (b)(1)(ii) amended
8130
1468.22 (b)(11) revised; (c)(2) amended
8130
1468.23 (b)(1) and (2) amended
8130
1468.24 (b)(2)(i), (iii), and (iv) revised
8130
1468.25 (c) and (d)(4) revised
8131
1468.26 (b)(1) amended
8131
1468.27 (c)(1), (3)(ii), and (4) amended; (e)(4)(iii) and (iv) redesignated as (e)(4)(iv) and (v); new (e)(4)(iii) added
8131
1468.28 (c) revised; (f) amended
8131
1468.32 (c)(2) amended
8131
1470.3 Correction: Amended
41702
1471 Revised
68876
1484.52 (b)(7) and (40) revised
68882
1484.70 (b)(1) amended
68882
1484.72 (c) amended
68882
1484.79 (a) amended
68882
1484.81 (a) introductory text, (1), and (b)(2) revised
68882
1485.15 (c)(6) revised
68883
1485.17 (b)(4) and (18) revised
68884
1485.22 (b)(1) amended
68884
1485.23 (b) amended
68884
1485.29 (d)(5) amended
68884
1485.34 (a) amended
68884
1485.36 (a) introductory text, (1), and (b)(2) revised
68884
2022
7 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter XI
1205.510 (b)(2) and (3) table revised
58713
1207.320 (b) revised
22435
1207.502 (a) revised
22435
1207.510 (b)(3) revised
22436
1207.513 (c)(1) revised
22436
1230.110 Revised
66538
1230.112 Revised
66539
Chapter XIV
1416.102 Amended
19785
1416.103 (d)(5) introductory text revised; (d)(6) added
19785
1416.104 (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, and (c) introductory text revised
19785
1416.105 (a) introductory text revised
19785
1416.106 (a)(2)(i) revised; (c)(3) amended; (c)(5) added
19786
1416.110 (a)(4) and (b) introductory text amended; (n) redesignated as (q); new (n), (o), and (p) added
19786
1499.1 (c), (e), and (f)(1) revised
53365
1499.2 Amended
53365
1499.3 (a) amended
53365
1499.4 (b)(2), (6), (c) introductory text, and (3) revised
53365
1499.5 (b), (c), (d)(4), (e) introductory text, and (4) revised
53365
1499.6 (a)(1), (e), (f)(7), and (8) revised
53365
1499.7 (b) introductory text and (1) revised; (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) and (f) added
53366
1499.8 Revised
53366
1499.9 (a), (b), and (d)(3)(iii) revised; (c) and (e) introductory text amended
53367
1499.10 (a) and (b) introductory text revised; (b)(1) and (c) removed; (b)(2), (3), (4), (d), (e), and (f) redesignated as (b)(1), (2), (3), new (c), (d), and (e)
53367
1499.11 (e) and (h) revised
53367
1499.13 Revised
53368
1499.14 (a) and (b)(4) amended; (b)(2) revised
53368
1499.15 Amended
53368
1499.16 (b) redesignated as (c); new (b) added; (a) and new (c)(3) revised
53368
1499.19 Amended
53369
2023
7 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle A
Chapter XI
1205.510 (b)(2) and (3) table revised
55347
1222.52 I revised
14485
1260.141 (a) and Table 1 revised
76100
1260.315 (q) removed; I through (rr) redesignated as (q) through (qq)
76102
Chapter XIV
1400.10 Added
1890
1400.107 Removed
1890
1416.5 Removed
1890
1416.102 Amended
1891
1416.103 (a) and (d)(6) amended
1891
1416.104 (c)(4) and (9) removed; (b)(16), (17), and (c)(5) through (8) redesignated as (b)(17), (18), and (c)(4) through (7); new (b)(16) added; new (c)(6) amended; new (c)(7) revised
1891
1416.204 (c)(4) removed; (a)(1) amended; (b)(15), (16), and (c)(5) through (9) redesignated as (b)(16), (17), and (c)(4) through (8); new (b)(15) added; (a)(5) and new (c)(8) revised
1891
1416.304 (c)(3) amended; (c)(4) revised
1891
1416.305 (g) introductory text and (i)(1) introductory text amended; (i) introductory text revised
1891
1437.3 Amended
1891
1437.6 (a)(1) removed; (a)(2) and (3) redesignated as (a)(1) and (2)
1891
1437.7 (a), (b) introductory text, and (g) amended
1892
1450.2 Amended
1892
1489 Revised
80094
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter XI
Subtitle A
1205.510 (b)(2) and (3) Table 2 revised
75447
1207.320 (b) and (c) revised
863
1207.321 (a) revised
863
1207.322 (d) revised
863
1207.325 (c) revised
863
1207.503 (a) through (c) revised
863
1207.507 Stayed indefinitely
863
1210.515 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 1-22-25
104398
1217.5 Revised
58250
1217.40 (a) and (b) revised
58250
1217.41 (e) through (g) redesignated as (f) through (h); (b), (c), and new (g) revised; (e) added
58251
1217.42 Revised
58251
1217.43 Revised
58251
1217.44 Redesignated as 1217.45; new section added
58251
1217.45 Redesignated as 1217.46; new section redesignated from 1217.44 and revised
58251
1217.46 Redesignated as 1217.47; new section redesignated from 1217.45
58251
1217.46 Revised
58252
1217.47 Redesignated as 1217.48; new section redesignated from 1217.46
58251
1217.47 Revised
58252
1217.48 Redesignated from 1217.47
58251
1217.52 (h) revised
58252
1220.201 (a) revised
90571
1240 Added
99063
Chapter XIV
1416.102 Amended
54334
1416.103 (j) added
54334
1416.104 (g) and (h) added
54335
1416.105 (c) and (d) amended; (f) added
54335
1416.106 (a)(2) introductory text and (e) amended; (a)(2)(iii) and (f) added
54335
1416.107 (a)(1) amended; (a)(3) redesignated as (a)(4); new (a)(3) added
54335
1416.109 Heading revised; (d) added
54335
1416.113 Added
54335
1430 Authority citation revised
14375
1430.402 Amended
14375
1430.403 (f) amended
14375
1430.403 (a)(1) amended
39540
1430.404 (a) amended; (b) introductory text, (c)(1), (e)(2), and (h) revised; (b)(3) removed
14375
1430.405 (a) introductory text, (1), (f), and (g) amended; (a)(3) revised; (a)(4) added
14375
1430.406 (c) amended
14376
1430.407 (a) introductory text and (2) amended; (f), (j), and (n) revised
14376
1430.409 (b), (2), (3), and (c) amended; (b)(4) removed
14376
1430.413 (b) and (c) amended; (d) and (e) added
14376
○
