(b) Meats, such as ground beef or ground pork, meat food products, and MREs, not covered by an agreement with Livestock and Seed Division, are analyzed for fat, moisture, salt, sulfur dioxide, nitrites, sulfites, ascorbates, citric acid, protein, standard plate counts, and coliform counts, among other analyses. These food product analyses are performed at any one of the Science and Technology (S
T) field laboratories as follows:
(1) USDA, AMS, Science and Technology, Midwestern Laboratory, 3570 North Avondale Avenue, Chicago, IL 60618.
(2) USDA, AMS, S
T Aflatoxin Laboratory, 107 South 4th Street, Madill, OK 73446.
(3) USDA, AMS, S
T, Eastern Laboratory, 2311-B Aberdeen Boulevard, Gastonia, NC 28054.
[58 FR 42445, Aug. 9, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 24325, May 10, 1994; 59 FR 50121, Sept. 30, 1994; 61 FR 51353, Oct. 2, 1996; 65 FR 64318, Oct. 26, 2000]
§ 98.4
Analytical methods.
(a) The majority of analytical methods used by the USDA laboratories to perform analyses of meat, meat food products and MREs are listed as follows:
(1) Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC INTERNATIONAL, Suite 500, 481 North Frederick Avenue, Gaithersburg, MD 20877-2417.
(2) U.S. Army Individual Protection Directorate's Military Specifications, approved analytical test methods noted therein, U.S. Army Natick Research, Development and Engineering Center, Kansas Street, Natick, MA 01760-5017.
(b) Additional analytical methods for these foods will be used, from time to time, as approved by the Director.
[58 FR 42445, Aug. 9, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51353, Oct. 2, 1996]
§ 98.5
Fees and charges.
(a) The fee charged for any single laboratory analysis of meat, meat food products, and MREs, not covered by an agreement with Livestock and Seed Division, is specified in the schedules of charges in paragraph (a) of § 91.37 of this subchapter.
(b) The laboratory analyses of meat, meat food products, and MREs, not covered by a cooperative agreement, shall result in an additional fee, found in table 7 of § 91.37 of this subchapter, for sample preparation or grinding.
(c) The charge for any requested laboratory analysis of meat, meat food products, and MREs not listed shall be based on the standard hourly rate specified in § 91.37, paragraph (b).

# Subpart B—USDA Certification of Laboratories for the Testing of Trichinae in Horsemeat
§ 98.100
General.
A laboratory that has met the requirements for certification specified in this subpart shall receive an AMS Science and Technology certificate to approve its analysis for
Trichinella
spiralis in horsemeat. Certification would be granted to a qualified analyst or a laboratory based on having the proper training, facilities, and equipment. This AMS laboratory certification program will enable horsemeat exporters to comply with trichinae testing requirements of the European Community.
[58 FR 42445, Aug. 9, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51353, Oct. 2, 1996; 65 FR 64318, Oct. 26, 2000]
§ 98.101
Definitions.
Words used in the regulations in this part in the singular form will import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. As used throughout the
regulations in this part, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms will be construed to mean:
European Community.
The European Community (EC) consists of the initial 12 European countries and the updated and expanded membership of nations. The original EC members are Belgium, Britain, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal and Spain.
Horsemeat.
That U.S. inspected and passed clean, wholesome muscle tissue of horses, which is skeletal or which is found in the tongue, in the diaphragm, in the heart, or in the esophagus, with or without the accompanying and overlying fat and the portions of sinews, nerves, and blood vessels, which normally accompany the muscle tissue and which are not separated from it in the process of dressing.
Trichinae.
Round worms or nematodes of the genus
Trichinella,
which live as parasites in man, horses, rats, and other animals.
Trichinella spiralis.
A small parasitic nematode worm which lives in the flesh of various animals, including the horse. When such infected meat is inadequately cooked and eaten by man, the live worm multiplies within the body and the larvae burrow their way into the muscles, causing a disease referred to as trichinosis.
§§ 98.102-98.600
[Reserved]
PARTS 99-109 [RESERVED]
Pt. 110

# PART 110—RECORDKEEPING ON RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDES BY CERTIFIED APPLICATORS; SURVEYS AND REPORTS
Sec.
110.1
Scope.
110.2
Definitions.
110.3
Records, retention, and access to records.
110.4
Demonstration of compliance.
110.5
Availability of records to facilitate medical treatment.
110.6
Federal cooperation with States.
110.7
Penalties.
110.8
Administrative procedures.
110.9
Miscellaneous.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136a(d)(1)(c), 136i-1, and 450; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.50.

# Source:
58 FR 19022, Apr. 9, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 110.1
Scope.
This part sets forth the requirements for recordkeeping on restricted use pesticides by all certified applicators, both private applicators and commercial applicators.
§ 110.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, or any individual to whom the Administrator delegates authority to act in his or her behalf.
Authorized representative.
Any person who is authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary or a State lead agency for the purpose of surveying records required to be kept under this part and enforcing this part.
Certification number.
A number issued by EPA or a State to an individual who is authorized by EPA or the State to use or supervise the use of any restricted use pesticide.
Certified applicator.
Any individual who is certified by EPA or the State to use or supervise the use of any restricted use pesticide covered by that individual's certification.
Commercial applicator.
A certified applicator, whether or not the individual is a private applicator with respect to some uses, who uses or supervises the use of any restricted use pesticide for any purpose on any property other than as provided by the definition of private applicator.
Comparable.
With respect to the records required to be kept under this part, similar to those required under EPA-approved State certification programs.
Complainant.
The Administrator or an official of a cooperating State that deals with pesticide use or health or environmental issues related to the pesticide use, who institutes a proceeding pursuant to § 110.8 of this part.
EPA.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
EPA registration number.
The number assigned to a product registered with
EPA in accordance with sections 3 or 24c of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and implementing regulations, and borne on the label of the product.
Indian governing body.
The governing body of any tribe, band, or group of Indians subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and recognized by the United States as possessing power of self-government.
Licensed health care professional.
A physician, nurse, emergency medical technician, or other qualified individual, licensed or certified by a State to provide medical treatment.
Medical emergency.
A situation that requires immediate medical treatment or first aid to treat possible symptoms of pesticide poisoning or exposure.
Parties.
Includes the Administrator or cooperating State agencies who institute proceedings against whom such proceedings are instituted, under § 110.8 of this part.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or other legal entity.
Presiding officer.
Any individual designated in writing by the Administrator to preside at a proceeding conducted pursuant to § 110.8 of this part.
Private applicator.
A certified applicator who uses or supervises the use of any restricted use pesticide for purposes of producing any agricultural commodity:
(1) On property owned or rented by the applicator or the employer of the applicator; or
(2) If applied without compensation, other than trading of personal services between producers of agricultural commodities, on the property of another person.
Record.
The legible recording of all required elements under section 110.3(a) (1) through (6) for the application of a federally restricted use pesticide.
1
1
Records can be handwritten on individual notes or forms, consist of invoices, be computerized, and or be maintained in recordkeeping books.
Recordkeeping.
The recording by the certified applicator, or the agent of the certified applicator, of the information required by § 110.3(a) and (b) concerning each restricted use pesticide application, either electronically or manually in writing, and the maintenance of such records in a manner accessible to authorized representatives.
Respondent.
The party proceeded against pursuant to § 110.8 of this part, restricted use pesticide. A pesticide that is federally classified for restricted use under section 3(d)(1)(c) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture, United States Department of Agriculture, or any individual to whom the Secretary delegates authority to act in his or her behalf.
State.
A State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States, or an Indian governing body.
State lead agency.
The agency designated by a State to have access to the records required to be maintained under this part.
Supervise.
To provide instruction and guidance in the application of restricted use pesticides and exercise control over an applicator of restricted use pesticides in accordance with standards prescribed by the EPA in 40 CFR part 171.
[58 FR 19022, Apr. 9, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 8123, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 110.3
Records, retention, and access to records.
(a) Certified applicators of restricted use pesticides shall maintain records of the application of restricted use pesticides. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, these records shall include the following information for each application:
(1) The brand or product name, and the EPA registration number of the restricted use pesticide that was applied;
(2) The total amount of the restricted use pesticide applied;
(3) The location of the application, the size of area treated, and the crop, commodity, stored product, or site to which a restricted use pesticide was applied. The location of the application may be recorded using any of the following designations:
(i) County, range, township, and section;
(ii) An identification system utilizing maps and/or written descriptions which accurately identify location;
(iii) An identification system established by a United States Department of Agriculture agency which utilizes maps and numbering system to identify field locations; or
(iv) The legal property description.
(4) The month, day, and year on which the restricted use pesticide application occurred; and
(5) The name and certification number (if applicable) of the certified applicator who applied or who supervised the application of the restricted use pesticide.
(b) Certified applicators shall maintain records of the application of restricted use pesticides made on the same day in a total area of less than one-tenth (
1/10
) of an acre. Except for applications of restricted use pesticides in greenhouses and nurseries, to which the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section apply, these records shall include the following information for the application:
(1) The brand or product name, and the EPA registration number of the restricted use pesticide that was applied;
(2) The total amount of the restricted use pesticide applied;
(3) The location of the application, designated as “spot application,” followed by a concise description of location and treatment; and
(4) The month, day, and year on which the restricted use pesticide application occurred.
(c) The information required in this section shall be recorded within 14 days following the pesticide application. However, whether or not the written record has been completed, the certified applicator shall provide the information to be recorded in accordance with § 110.5(a).
(d) The records required in this section shall be retained for a period of 2 years from the date of the restricted use pesticide application and be maintained in a manner that is accessible by authorized representatives.
(e) A commercial applicator shall, within 30 days of a restricted use pesticide application, provide a copy of records required under this section or under State or Federal regulations (whichever is applicable) under which the commercial applicator is holding certification, to the person for whom the restricted use pesticide was applied.
(f) A certified applicator shall, upon oral request and presentation of credentials by an authorized representative, make available to the authorized representative the records required to be maintained under this section and permit the authorized representative to copy any of the records. The original of the records required to be maintained under this section shall be retained by the certified pesticide applicators.
(g) No Federal or State agency shall release information obtained under this part that would directly or indirectly reveal the identity of producers of commodities to which restricted use pesticides have been applied.
(h) Certified applicators who apply restricted use pesticides in States where they are required to maintain records on applications of restricted use pesticides, comparable to those for commercial applicators in that State, and such records are maintained in accordance with State requirements, are not subject to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
[58 FR 19022, Apr. 9, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 8123, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 110.4
Demonstration of compliance.
The Secretary is authorized to inspect and copy any record required to be maintained by this part in order to determine whether a certified applicator is complying with this part.
§ 110.5
Availability of records to facilitate medical treatment.
(a) When the attending licensed health care professional, or an individual acting under the direction of the attending licensed health care professional, determines that any record of the application of any restricted use pesticide required to be maintained under § 110.3 is necessary to provide medical treatment or first aid to an individual who may have been exposed to the restricted use pesticide for which the record is or will be maintained, the
certified applicator required to maintain the record shall promptly provide the record information and any available label information. If it is determined by the attending licensed health care professional, or an individual acting under the direction of the attending licensed health care professional, to be a medical emergency, the record information of the restricted use pesticide, relating to the medical emergency, shall be provided immediately.
(b)(1) The attending licensed health care professional, or an individual acting under the direction of the attending licensed health care professional, may utilize and release the record or record information obtained under paragraph (a) of this section when necessary to provide medical treatment or first aid to an individual who may have been exposed to the restricted use pesticide for which the record is or will be maintained.
(2) The attending licensed health care professional may release the record or record information to appropriate federal or state agencies that deal with pesticide use or any health issue related to the use of pesticides when necessary to prevent further injury or illness.
(3) A licensed health care professional may release the record or record information to submit pesticide poisoning incident reports to appropriate state or federal agencies.
[60 FR 8123, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 110.6
Federal cooperation with States.
(a) For the purpose of carrying out this part, the Administrator may enter into agreements with States.
(b) The Administrator may, after entering a State-Federal cooperative agreement with a State, utilize employees and facilities of the State to carry out any provisions of this part in that State. This State-Federal cooperative agreement shall specify:
(1) The agency of the State that is designated as the State lead agency;
(2) The responsibilities of State agencies for the enforcement of this part and the imposition of penalties under this part;
(3) The qualifications required of the State employees administering and enforcing this part;
(4) That the State-Federal cooperative agreement may be terminated at any time by the mutual agreement of the parties to the agreement;
(5) That the State-Federal cooperative agreement may be terminated by either party by giving written notice to the other party at least 90 days before a specified date of termination; and
(6) The provisions for liaison between the State and the Administrator concerning the administration and enforcement of this part as may be agreed by the Administrator and the State.
(c) If at any time the Administrator shall determine that the State lead agency or other State agencies charged with carrying out the terms of the State-Federal cooperative agreement are unable or unwilling to carry out the terms of the agreement, or, if for any reason the Administrator or State shall determine that the agreement is no longer in effect, the Administrator shall administer and enforce this part in the State.
(d) If a State shall notify the Administrator of its readiness to enter into a State-Federal cooperative agreement prior to passage of State legislation and regulations governing recordkeeping by certified applicators of restricted use pesticides, the Administrator may enter into a State-Federal cooperative agreement with the State on an annual basis.
(e) For a State to be eligible for Federal technical or financial assistance under a State-Federal cooperative agreement, the State requirements for recordkeeping by all certified applicators of restricted use pesticides must be comparable to the recordkeeping requirements under this part.
§ 110.7
Penalties.
Any certified applicator who violates 7 U.S.C. 136i-1(a), (b), or (c) or this part shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than the amount specified in section § 3.91(b)(1)(i)(A) of this title in the case of the first offense, and in the case of subsequent offenses, be subject to a civil penalty of not less than the
amount specified in § 3.91(b)(1)(i)(B) of this title for each violation, except that the civil penalty shall be less than the amount specified in § 3.91(b)(1)(i)(B) of this title if the Administrator determines that the certified applicator made a good faith effort to comply with 7 U.S.C. 136i-1(a), (b), and (c) and this part.
[70 FR 29579, May 24, 2005]
§ 110.8
Administrative procedures.
(a)
Notice of violation.
If there is reason to believe that a person has violated or is violating any provision of this part, the complainant may file with the Presiding Officer a notice of violation signed by the complainant. The notice of violation shall state:
(1) The date of issuance of the notice of violation;
(2) The nature of the proceeding;
(3) The identification of the complainant and respondent;
(4) The legal authority under which the proceeding is instituted;
(5) The allegations of fact and provisions of law which constitute the basis for the proceeding;
(6) The amount of the proposed civil penalty; and
(7) The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the Presiding Officer.
(b)
Answer.
Within 30 days after the service of the notice of violation, the respondent shall file with the Presiding Officer an answer signed by the respondent or by the attorney of record in the proceeding. The answer shall:
(1) Admit, deny, or explain each of the allegations in the notice of violation and set forth any defense asserted by the respondent; or
(2) State that the respondent admits all the facts alleged in the notice of violation; or
(3) State that the respondent admits the jurisdictional allegations in the notice of violation and neither admits nor denies the remaining allegations and consents to the issuance of an order without further procedure.
(c)
Default.
Failure to file an answer within 30 days after service of the notice of violation shall be deemed, for purposes of the proceeding, an admission of the allegations in the notice of violation, and failure to deny or otherwise respond to an allegation in the notice of violation shall be deemed, for purposes of the proceeding, an admission of the allegation, unless the complainant and respondent have agreed to a consent decision pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Amendment of notice of violation or answer.
At any time prior to the filing of a motion for a hearing, the notice of violation or answer may be amended with the consent of the complainant and respondent or as authorized by the Presiding Officer upon a showing of good cause.
(e)
Consent decision.
At any time before the Presiding Officer files the decision, the complainant and respondent may agree to the entry of a consent decision. The agreement shall be in the form of a decision signed by the complainant and respondent with appropriate space for signature by the Presiding Officer, and shall contain an admission of at least the jurisdictional facts, consent to the issuance of the agreed decision without further procedure, and such other admissions or statements as may be agreed to by the complainant and respondent. The Presiding Officer shall enter such decision without further procedure, unless an error is apparent on the face of the document. The consent decision shall have the same force and effect as a decision issued after a full hearing, shall become final upon issuance, and shall become effective in accordance with the terms of the decision.
(f)
Procedure upon failure to file an answer or admission of facts.
The failure to file an answer with the Presiding Officer, or the admission by the answer of all the material allegations of fact contained in the notice of violation, shall constitute a waiver of hearing. Upon such admission or failure to submit an answer, complainant shall file with the Presiding Officer a proposed decision, along with a motion for the adoption of the proposed decision both of which shall be served upon the respondent by the Presiding Officer. Within 20 days after service of the motion and proposed decision, the respondent may file with the Presiding Officer objections to the motion and proposed decision. If the Presiding Officer finds that meritorious objections have been filed,
complainant's motion shall be denied with supporting reasons. If meritorious objections are not filed, the Presiding Officer shall issue a decision without further procedure or hearing. Copies of the decision or denial of complainant's motion shall be served by the Presiding Officer upon the respondent and the complainant and may be appealed pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section. Where the decision as proposed by complainant is entered, such decision shall become final and effective without further proceedings 35 days after the date of service of the decision upon the respondent, unless there is an appeal to the Administrator by the complainant or respondent, pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section.
(g)
Conferences.
(1) Upon motion of the complainant or respondent, the Presiding Officer may direct the complainant and respondent or their counsel to attend a conference at any reasonable time, prior to or during the course of the hearing, when the Presiding Officer finds that the proceeding would be expedited by a conference. Reasonable notice of the time and place of the conference shall be given. The Presiding Officer may order the complainant or respondent to furnish at or subsequent to the conference any or all of the following:
(i) An outline of the case or defense;
(ii) The legal theories upon which the party will rely;
(iii) A list of documents which the party anticipates introducing at the hearing; and
(iv) A list of anticipated witnesses who will testify on behalf of the party. At the discretion of the party furnishing such list of witnesses, the names of the witnesses need not be furnished if they are otherwise identified in some meaningful way such as a short statement of the type of evidence they will offer.
(2) The Presiding Officer shall not order a party to furnish the information or documents listed in paragraph (g)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section if the party can show that providing the particular information or document is inappropriate or unwarranted under the circumstances of the particular case.
(3) At the conference, the following matters may be considered:
(i) The simplification of issues;
(ii) The necessity of amendments to the notice of violation or answer;
(iii) The possibility of obtaining stipulations of facts and of the authenticity, accuracy, and admissibility of documents, which will avoid unnecessary proof;
(iv) The limitation of the number of expert or other witnesses;
(v) Negotiation, compromise, or settlement of issues;
(vi) The exchange of copies of proposed exhibits;
(vii) The identification of documents or matters of which official notice may be requested;
(viii) A schedule to be followed by the parties for completion of the actions decided at the conference; and
(ix) Such other matters as may expedite and aid in the disposition of the proceeding.
(4) A conference will not be stenographically reported unless so directed by the Presiding Officer.
(5) In the event the Presiding Officer concludes that personal attendance by the Presiding Officer and the parties or counsel at a conference is unwarranted or impractical, but determines that a conference would expedite the proceeding, the Presiding Officer may conduct the conference by telephone or correspondence.
(6) Actions taken as a result of a conference shall be reduced to a written appropriate order, unless the Presiding Officer concludes that a stenographic report shall suffice, or, the Presiding Officer elects to make a statement on the record at the hearing summarizing the actions taken.
(h)
Procedure for hearing
—(1)
Request for hearing.
The complainant or respondent may request a hearing on the facts by including such a request in the notice of violation or answer, or by a separate request, in writing, filed with the Presiding Officer within the time in which an answer may be filed. Failure to request a hearing within the time allowed for the filing of the answer shall constitute a waiver of a hearing. In the event the respondent denies any material fact and fails to file a timely request for a hearing, the
matter may be set down for hearing on motion of the complainant filed with the Presiding Officer or upon the Presiding Officer's own motion.
(2)
Time and place.
If any material issue of fact is joined by the pleading, the Presiding Officer, upon motion of any of the parties stating that the matter is at issue and is ready for hearing, shall set a time and place for hearing as soon as feasible with due regard for the public interest and the convenience and necessity of the parties. The Presiding Officer shall issue a notice stating the time and place of hearing. If any change in the time or place of the hearing is made, the Presiding Officer shall issue a notice of this change, which notice shall be served upon the complainant and respondent, unless it is made during the course of an oral hearing and made a part of the transcript, or actual notice is given to the parties.
(3)
Appearances.
The parties may appear in person or by attorney of record in the proceeding. Any individual who appears as an attorney must conform to the standard of ethical conduct required of practitioners before the courts of the United States.
(4)
Debarment of attorney.
Whenever a Presiding Officer finds that an individual acting as attorney for any party to the proceeding is guilty of unethical or contumacious conduct, in or in connection with a proceeding, the Presiding Officer may order that the individual be precluded from further acting as attorney in the proceeding. An appeal to the Administrator may be taken from any such order, but no proceeding shall be delayed or suspended pending disposition of the appeal:
Provided,
That the Presiding Officer shall suspend the proceeding for a reasonable time for the purpose of enabling the party to obtain another attorney.
(5)
Failure to appear.
A respondent who, after being duly notified, fails to appear at the hearing without good cause, shall be deemed to have waived the right to an oral hearing in the proceeding and to have admitted any facts which may be presented at the hearing. The failure by the respondent to appear at the hearing shall also constitute an admission of all the material allegations of fact contained in the notice of violation. The complainant shall have an election whether to follow the procedure set forth in paragraph (f) of this section or whether to present evidence, in whole or in part, in the form of affidavits, exhibits, or by oral testimony before the Presiding Officer. Failure to appear at a hearing shall not be deemed to be a waiver of the right to be served with a copy of the Presiding Officer's decision and to appeal to the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section.
(6)
Order of proceeding.
Except as may be determined otherwise by the Presiding Officer, the complainant shall proceed first at the hearing.
(7)
Evidence.
(i) The testimony of witnesses at a hearing shall be on oath or affirmation and subject to cross-examination.
(ii) Upon a finding of good cause, the Presiding Officer may order that any witness be examined separately and apart from all other witnesses except those who are parties to the proceeding.
(iii) Evidence which is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious, or which is not of the sort upon which responsible persons are accustomed to rely, shall be excluded insofar as practicable.
(8)
Objections.
(i) If a party objects to the admission of any evidence or to the limitation of the scope of any examination or cross-examination or to any other ruling of the Presiding Officer, the party shall state briefly the grounds of such objection, whereupon an automatic exception will follow if the objection is overruled by the Presiding Officer.
(ii) Only objections made before the Presiding Officer may subsequently be relied upon in the proceeding.
(9)
Exhibits.
Unless the Presiding Officer finds that the furnishing of copies is impracticable, four copies of each exhibit shall be filed with the Presiding Officer:
Provided,
That, where there are more than two parties in the proceeding, an additional copy shall be filed for each additional party. A true copy of an exhibit may be substituted for the original.
(10)
Official records or documents.
An official government record or document or entry in such a record or document, if admissible for any purpose, shall be admissible in evidence without the production of the individual who made or prepared the same, and shall be prima facie evidence of the relevant facts stated in the record or document. Such record or document shall be evidenced by an official publication of the record or document or by a copy certified by an individual having legal authority to make such certification.
(11)
Official notice.
Official notice shall be taken of such matters as are judicially noticed by the courts of the United States and of any other matter of technical, scientific, or commercial fact of established character:
Provided,
That the parties shall be given adequate notice of matters so noticed, and shall be given adequate opportunity to show that such facts are erroneously noticed.
(12)
Offer of proof.
Whenever evidence is excluded by the Presiding Officer, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the transcript. The offer of proof shall consist of a brief statement describing the evidence excluded. If the evidence consists of a brief oral statement, the statement shall be included in the transcript in its entirety. If the evidence consists of an exhibit, it shall be marked for identification and inserted in the hearing record. In either event, the evidence shall be considered a part of the transcript and hearing record if the Administrator, upon appeal, decides the Presiding Officer's ruling excluding the evidence was erroneous and prejudicial. If the Administrator, upon appeal, decides the Presiding Officer's ruling excluding the evidence was erroneous and prejudicial and that it would be appropriate to have such evidence considered a part of the hearing record, the Administrator may direct that the hearing be reopened to permit the taking of such evidence or for any purpose in connection with the excluded evidence.
(13)
Transcript.
Hearings shall be recorded and transcribed verbatim.
(i)
Post-hearing procedure
—(1)
Corrections to transcript.
(i) Within the period of time fixed by the Presiding Officer, any party may file a motion proposing corrections to the transcript.
(ii) Unless a party files a motion proposing corrections to the transcript in the time fixed by the Presiding Officer, the transcript shall be presumed, except for obvious typographical errors, to be a true, correct, and complete transcript of the testimony given at the hearing and to contain an accurate description or reference to all exhibits received in evidence and made part of the hearing record and shall be deemed to be certified without further action by the Presiding Officer.
(iii) As soon as practicable after the close of the hearing and after consideration of any timely objection filed as to the transcript, the Presiding Officer shall issue an order making any corrections to the transcript which the Presiding Officer finds are warranted, which corrections shall be entered on to the original transcript by the Presiding Officer without obscuring the original text.
(2)
Proposed finding of fact, conclusions, order, and briefs.
Prior to the Presiding Officer's decision, each party shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit for consideration proposed findings of fact, conclusions, order, and brief in support of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions and order. A copy of each such document filed by a party shall be served upon each of the other parties.
(3)
Presiding Officer's decision.
(i) The Presiding Officer shall issue a decision within 30 days after the hearing, or, if any party submits proposed findings of fact, conclusions, order, and a brief in support thereof in accordance with paragraph (i)(2) of this section, 30 days after the last such submission. The Presiding Officer's decision shall include the Presiding Officer's findings of the fact, conclusions of law, and the reasons or basis for the findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(ii) The Presiding Officer's decision shall become effective without further proceedings 35 days after the date of service of the decision upon the respondent, unless there is an appeal to the Administrator by a party to the proceeding pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section.
(j)
Motions and requests
—(1)
General.
All motions and requests shall be filed with the Presiding Officer, and served upon all the parties, except:
(i) requests for extensions of time pursuant to paragraph (m)(3) of this section; and
(ii) motions and requests made on the record during the oral hearing. The Presiding Officer shall rule upon all motions and requests filed or made prior to the filing of an appeal of the Presiding Officer's decision pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section except motions directly relating to the appeal. Thereafter, the Administrator will rule on any motions and requests, as well as the motions directly relating to the appeal.
(2)
Motions entertained.
(i) Any motion will be entertained other than a motion to dismiss on the pleading. (A motion by the complainant seeking the voluntary dismissal of the notice of violation may be entertained by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator.)
(ii) All motions and requests concerning the notice of violation must be made within the time allowed for filing an answer, except motions by the complainant seeking voluntary dismissal of the notice of violation.
(3)
Contents.
All written motions and requests shall state the particular order, ruling, or action desired and the grounds for the order, ruling, or action desired.
(4)
Response to motions and requests.
Within 10 days after service of any written motion or request, or within a shorter or longer period as may be fixed by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, an opposing party may file a response to the motion or request. The other party shall have no right to reply to the response; however, the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, in their discretion, may order that a reply be filed.
(k)
Presiding Officer
—(1)
Assignment.
No Presiding Officer shall be assigned to serve in any proceeding who:
(i) Has any pecuniary interest in any matter or business involved in the proceeding;
(ii) Is related within the third degree by blood or marriage to any party to the proceeding; or
(iii) Has any conflict of interest which might impair the Presiding Officer's objectivity in the proceeding.
(2)
Disqualification of Presiding Officer.
(i) Any party to the proceeding may, by motion made to the Presiding Officer, request that the Presiding Officer withdraw from the proceeding because of an alleged disqualifying reason. Such motion shall set forth with particularity the grounds of alleged disqualification. The Presiding Officer may then either rule upon or certify the motion to the Administrator, but not both.
(ii) A Presiding Officer shall withdraw from any proceeding for any reason deemed by the Presiding Officer to be disqualifying.
(3)
Powers.
The Presiding Officer, in any assigned proceeding, shall have power to:
(i) Rule upon motions and requests;
(ii) Set the time and place of a conference and the hearing, adjourn the hearing from time to time, and change the time and place of hearing;
(iii) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(iv) Summon and examine witnesses and receive evidence at the hearing;
(v) Admit or exclude evidence;
(vi) Hear oral argument on facts or law;
(vii) Do all acts and take all measures necessary for maintenance or order, including the exclusion of contumacious counsel or other persons; and
(viii) Take all other actions authorized under this section.
(l)
Appeal to the Administrator
—(1)
Filing of petition.
Within 30 days after receiving notice of the Presiding Officer's decision, a party who disagrees with the decision, or any part of the Presiding Officer's decision, or any ruling by the Presiding Officer or a party who alleges a deprivation of rights, may appeal the Presiding Officer's decision or rulings to the Administrator by filing an appeal petition with the Administrator. As provided in paragraph (h)(8) of this section, objections regarding evidence or a limitation regarding examination or cross examination or other ruling made before the Presiding Officer may be relied upon in an appeal. The appeal petition shall state
the name and address of the person filing the appeal petition. Each issue set forth in the appeal petition, and the arguments on each issue, shall be separately numbered; shall be plainly and concisely stated; and shall contain detailed citations of the record, statutes, regulations, or authorities being relied upon in support of the argument. A brief may be filed in support of the appeal simultaneously with the appeal petition.
(2)
Response to appeal petition.
Within 20 days after the service of a copy of an appeal petition and any brief in support of the appeal petition, filed by a party to the proceeding, any other party may file with the Administrator a response in support of or in opposition to the appeal petition and, in such response any relevant issue, not presented in the appeal petition, may be raised.
(3)
Transmittal of record.
Whenever an appeal to the Presiding Officer's decision is filed and a response to the appeal has been filed or time for filing a response has expired, the Presiding Officer shall transmit to the Administrator the record of the proceeding. The record shall include: the pleading; motions and requests filed and rulings on such motions and requests; the transcript of the testimony taken at the hearing, together with the exhibits filed in connection with the hearing; any documents or papers filed in connection with a conference; such proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and orders, and briefs in support thereof, as may have been filed in connection with the proceeding; the Presiding Officer's decision; and such exceptions, statements of objections and briefs in support thereof as may have been filed in the proceeding.
(4)
Decision of the Administrator on appeal.
As soon as practicable after the receipt of the record from the Presiding Officer, the Administrator, upon the basis of and after due consideration of the record and any matter of which official notice is taken, shall rule on the appeal. If the Administrator decides that no change or modification of the Presiding Officer's decision is warranted, the Administrator may adopt the Presiding Officer's decision as the final order in the proceeding, preserving any right of the party bringing the appeal to seek judicial review of such decision in the proper forum.
(m)
Filing; service; extensions of time; and computation of time
—(1)
Filing; number of copies.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, all documents or papers required or authorized by this section to be filed with the Presiding Officer or Administrator shall be filed in quadruplicate:
Provided,
That where there are more than two parties in the proceeding, an additional copy shall be filed for each additional party.
(2)
Service; proof of service.
Copies of all documents or papers required or authorized by this section to be filed with the Presiding Officer or Administrator shall be served upon the parties by the person with whom such documents or papers are filed. Service shall be made either:
(i) By delivering a copy of the document or paper to the individual to be served or to a member of the partnership to be served, or to the president, secretary, or other executive officer or any director of the corporation or association to be served, or to the attorney of record representing such person; or
(ii) By leaving a copy of the document or paper at the principal office or place of business or residence of such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association, or of the attorney of record representing such person and mailing by regular mail another copy to such person at such address; or
(iii) By registering or certifying and mailing a copy of the document or paper, addressed to such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association, or to the attorney of record representing such person, at the last known residence or principal office or place of business of such person:
Provided,
That if the registered or certified document or paper is returned undelivered because the addressee refused or failed to accept delivery, the document or paper shall be served by remailing it by regular mail. Proof of service under this paragraph shall be made by the certificate of the person who actually made the service:
Provided,
That if the service be made by mail, under paragraph (m)(2)(iii) of this section, proof of service shall be made by the return
post-office receipt, in the case of registered or certified mail, or by the certificate of the person who mailed the matter by regular mail. Any certificate or post-office receipt returned to the Presiding Officer or Administrator shall be filed by the Presiding Officer or Administrator, and made a part of the record of the proceeding.
(3)
Extensions of time.
The time for the filing of any document or paper required or authorized under this section to be filed may be extended by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, if in the judgment of the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as the case may be, there is good reason for the extension. In all instances in which time permits, notice of the request for extension of the time shall be given to the other party with opportunity to submit views concerning the request.
(4)
Effective date of filing.
Any document or paper required or authorized under this section to be filed shall be deemed to be filed at the time when it reaches the person with whom the document or paper must be filed.
(5)
Computation of time.
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall be included in computing the time allowed for the filing of any document or paper:
Provided,
That, when such time expires on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, such period shall be extended to include the next following business day.
(n)
Ex parte communications.
(1) At no stage of the proceeding between its institution and the issuance of the final decision shall the Presiding Officer or Administrator discuss ex parte the merits of the proceeding with any person who is connected with the proceeding in an advocative or in an investigative capacity, or with any representative of such person:
Provided,
That the Presiding Officer or Administrator may discuss the merits of the case with such a person if all parties to the proceeding, or their attorneys have been given notice and an opportunity to participate. A memorandum of such discussion shall be included in the record.
(2) No interested person shall make or knowingly cause to be made to the Presiding Officer or Administrator an ex parte communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding.
(3) If the Presiding Officer of the Administrator receives an ex parte communication in violation of this paragraph (n), the individual who receives the communication shall place in the public record of the proceeding:
(i) Any such written communication;
(ii) Memoranda stating the substance of such oral communication; and
(iii) Any written response, and memoranda stating the substance of any oral response to the ex parte communication.
(4) For purposes of this section
ex parte communication
means an oral or written communication not on the public record with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, but it shall not include requests for status reports on any matter or the proceeding.
§ 110.9
Miscellaneous.
In accordance with Section 3507 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3507), the recordkeeping provisions in this rule have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and there are no new requirements. The assigned OMB control number is 0581-AA39.
PARTS 111-159 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER F—NAVAL STORES
Pt. 160

# PART 160—REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR NAVAL STORES

# General
Sec.
160.1
Definitions of general terms.
160.2
Spirits of turpentine defined.
160.3
Rosin defined.
160.4
Reclaimed rosin.
160.5
Standards for naval stores.
160.6
Standard designations for turpentine.
160.7
Gum spirits of turpentine.
160.8
Steam distilled wood turpentine.
160.9
Destructively distilled wood turpentine.
160.10
Sulphate wood turpentine.
160.11
Quality requirements.
160.12
Standard designations for rosin.
160.13
Grade designations for rosin.
160.14
Opaque rosin.

# Establishment of New and Modified Standards
160.15
New standards.
160.16
Modification of existing standards.

# Methods of Analysis, Inspection, Sampling and Grading
160.17
Laboratory analysis.
160.18
Determining the grade of rosin.
160.19
Samples of rosin for grading.
160.20
More than one grade in a container.
160.21
Rosin not fit for grading.
160.22
Collecting samples; issuing certificates.
160.23
Disposition of samples.

# Analysis, Inspection, and Grading on Request
160.24
Inspection on request.
160.24a
Inspection as to condition of drums containing rosin and the quality and condition of the rosin therein upon request.
160.25
How requests shall be made.
160.26
Withdrawal of request.
160.27
Containers to be made ready.
160.28
Tank cars of turpentine.
160.29
Containers to remain intact.
160.30
Contents of containers to be designated.
160.31
Time and manner of sampling.
160.32
Marking containers.
160.33
Containers not acceptable for inspection.
160.34
Responsibility of interested person.
160.35
Illegible inspection marks.
160.36
Authority for changing marks.
160.37
Prior marks to be removed.

# Request Inspection by Licensed Inspectors
160.38
Permit to use licensed inspector.
160.39
Form of application for license or permit.
160.40
Applicant for license to be examined.
160.41
Issuance of temporary license.
160.42
Limitation of license.
160.43
Licensed inspector to be disinterested.
160.44
Other duties of licensed inspectors.
160.45
Conditions governing licensed inspection.
160.46
Identification of containers.
160.47
Periodic re-inspection.
160.48
Form of certificate.
160.49
Responsibility for inspection certificates and forms.
160.50
Reports to be made by accredited processors.
160.51
Report of non-conformance.
160.52
Suspension or revocation of licenses.
160.53
Stopping inspection by suspended inspector.
160.54
Suspension or revocation of permits.
160.55
Voluntary discontinuance of licensed inspection.
160.56
Compensation of licensed inspectors.
160.57
Fees for licensed inspection permits.
160.58
Fees for inspection and certification by licensed inspectors.
160.59
Appeal inspections.
160.60
Charge for appeal inspection.

# Certificates and Reports
160.61
Kinds of certificates issued.
160.62
When a certificate may be issued.
160.63
When a certificate may not be issued.
160.64
Issuance of loan and sale certificate.
160.65
Prior certification required.

# Fees and Charges for Services Rendered
160.66
Fees for inspection services.
160.67
Fees under cooperative agreements.
160.68
Collection of fees.
160.69
Expenses to be borne by person requesting service.
160.70
Rendition of claims.
160.71
Delinquent claims.

# Loan and Care of United States Standards
160.73
Availability of standards.
160.74
Loan of standards without security.
160.75
Loan of standards under security deposit.
160.76
Annual charge for use of standards.
160.77
Reporting on use of standards.
160.78
Loss or damage of standards.
160.79
Request for additional standards.
160.80
Denial of loan of additional standards.
160.81
Surrender of standards.
160.82
Return of security.
160.83
Miscellaneous receipts.

# Sales and Shipments
160.84
Identification of shipments.
160.85
Sale of mixed turpentine not lawful.
160.86
Prohibited use of United States Standards.
160.87
Prohibited use of word “turpentine” or derivatives thereof.
160.88
Permitted use of words “turpentine” and “rosin.”
160.89
Medicinal preparations.

# Labeling, Advertising and Packing
160.90
False, misleading, or deceitful practices.
160.91
Meaning of words “pine” and “pine tree.”
160.92
Meaning of word “gallon.”
160.93
Powdered rosin.
160.94
Spirits of turpentine for medicinal use.

# Proceedings in Case of Violation
160.95
Proceedings prior to reporting violations of the act.
160.96
Report of violations for prosecution.
160.97
Publication.

# Specific Fees Payable for Services Rendered
160.201
Fees generally for field inspection and certification of naval stores and drum containers of rosin.
160.202
Fees generally for laboratory analysis and testing.
160.203
Fees for inspection and certification of other naval stores material.
160.204
Fees for extra cost and hourly rate service.
160.205
Permit fees for eligible processing plants under licensed inspection.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 94, 1624.

# Source:
11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946; 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 160.1
Definitions of general terms.
The terms as defined in section 2 of the Naval Stores Act shall apply with equal force and effect when used in the provisions in this part. In addition, unless the context requires otherwise, the terms hereinafter set forth shall be defined respectively as follows:
(a)
Act.
The Naval Stores Act of March 3, 1923 (42 Stat. 1435; 7 U.S.C. 91-99).
(b)
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
(c)
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.
(d)
Official inspector.
Any person designated or licensed by the Secretary to sample, examine, analyze, classify or grade naval stores.
(e)
Licensed inspector.
A person licensed by the Administrator upon recommendation of an accredited processor to act as an official inspector with respect to naval stores produced at an eligible processing plant of such processor.
(f)
Eligible processing plant.
A plant which on examination by the Administrator has been found to be designed, operated, and staffed so as to permit proper samplings and inspections of the naval stores produced thereat, and where a substantial proportion of the output comes from oleoresin obtained from trees growing on land not owned or leased by the processor himself, or from oleoresin contained within felled trees or stumps removed from such land.
(g)
Accredited processor.
Any person owning or having charge of or jurisdiction over the operation of an eligible processing plant, to whom a permit has been issued under these regulations to have inspections of naval stores made by a licensed inspector.
(h)
Interested person.
Any person who is a party to a factual or prospective transaction in a specific lot of naval stores, whether as producer, seller, shipper, dealer, or purchaser thereof; or any person who in the opinion of the Administrator has sufficient and proper interest in the analysis, classification, grading, or sale of naval stores to merit the loan and use of duplicates of the United States Standards.
(i)
Dealer.
Any person who sells or ships in commerce any naval stores produced by a person other than himself.
(j)
Cooperative agreement.
A written agreement between the Department and any person specifying the conditions under which special inspection
personnel may be designated and procedures established, not otherwise available under existing inspection programs, in order to make possible a continuous, day-by-day inspection of naval stores for such person, or to provide facilities for carrying out experimental studies on authentic naval stores related to the inspection and marketing thereof.
(k)
Standards.
The official Naval Stores Standards of the United States for classification and grading of spirits of turpentine and rosin.
(l)
Analysis.
Any examination by physical, chemical, or sensory methods.
(m)
Classification.
Designation as to kind of spirits of turpentine or rosin.
(n)
Grading.
Determination of the grade of turpentine or rosin by comparison with the standards.
(o)
Certificate.
The official certificate issued under the provisions of the act and the provisions in this part to show the results of any examination, analysis, classification, or grading of naval stores by an official inspector.
(p)
Label.
Any word, combination of words, coined or trade name, picturization of any natural scene or article, or any limitation thereof, applied to, superimposed upon, impressed into, or in any other manner attached to a container of naval stores or other article coming within the scope of the act, by which the nature, kind, quality, or quantity of the contents of such container may be indicated.
(q)
Container.
Any receptacle in which naval stores are placed for inspection or distribution in commerce; includes barrel, drum, tank, tank car, bag, bottle, can, or other receptacle.
[11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955; 46 FR 47055, Sept. 24, 1981; 47 FR 3344, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.2
Spirits of turpentine defined.
Spirits of turpentine, also commonly known as turpentine, is the colorless or faintly colored volatile oil consisting principally of terpene hydrocarbons of the general empirical formula C
10
H
16
and having a characteristic odor and taste. It occurs naturally in and may be recovered by distillation from the oleoresinous secretions obtained from living trees of the family
Pinaceae,
or present in the cellular structure, or wood, of species thereof.
§ 160.3
Rosin defined.
Except as provided in § 160.15, rosin is the vitreous, well-strained, transparent, solid resin which (a) remains after the volatile terpene oils are distilled from (1) the oleoresin collected from living trees or (2) the oleoresin extracted from wood; or (b) remains after distillation of the fatty acids from tall oil recovered from wood in the course of its chemical disintegration to produce cellulose. In addition to the free resin acids, rosin may contain relatively small proportions of fatty acids, resin esters and other esters, unsaponifiable resenes, and non-resinous foreign matter naturally occurring therein.
§ 160.4
Reclaimed rosin.
Reclaimed rosin is rosin that has been recovered or reclaimed by any means from waste or deteriorated material:
Provided,
That such reclaimed product may be graded as rosin under the act and the provisions in this part only if the concentration of rosin acids therein has not been reduced below the concentration normal for rosin, and any residual or contaminating component remaining from the waste material itself or from any article used in the recovery process is not sufficient to cause the physical or chemical properties of the reclaimed product to differ substantially from the normal properties of rosin.
§ 160.5
Standards for naval stores.
In addition to the standards of identity for spirits of turpentine and rosin and the grade designations for rosin specified in the act, certain standards for naval stores have been promulgated by the Administrator pursuant to the act as indicated in § 160.301
et seq.
§ 160.6
Standard designations for turpentine.
Spirits of turpentine within the meaning of the act and the provisions in this part shall be designated as “gum spirits of turpentine,” “steam distilled wood turpentine,” “destructively distilled wood turpentine,” or
“sulphate wood turpentine,” as the case may be.
§ 160.7
Gum spirits of turpentine.
The designation “gum spirits of turpentine” shall refer to the kind of spirits of turpentine obtained by distillation of the oleoresin (gum) from living trees, and commonly known prior to the passage of the act as gum spirits, gum turpentine, spirits of turpentine, or oil of turpentine.
§ 160.8
Steam distilled wood turpentine.
The designation “steam distilled wood turpentine” shall refer to the kind of spirits of turpentine obtained by steam distillation from the oleoresinous component of wood whether in the presence of the wood or after extraction from the wood, and commonly known prior to the passage of the act as wood turpentine, steam distilled turpentine, steam distilled wood turpentine, or S. D. wood turpentine.
§ 160.9
Destructively distilled wood turpentine.
The designation “destructively distilled wood turpentine” shall refer to the kind of spirits of turpentine prepared from the distillate obtained in the destructive distillation (carbonization) of wood, and commonly known prior to the passage of the act as destructively distilled wood turpentine or D.D. wood turpentine.
§ 160.10
Sulphate wood turpentine.
The designation “sulphate wood turpentine” shall refer to the kind of spirits of turpentine prepared from the condensates that are recovered in the sulphate process of cooking wood pulp, and commonly known as sulphate turpentine or sulphate wood turpentine.
§ 160.11
Quality requirements.
The several standards for spirits of turpentine, as defined in §§ 160.8 to 160.10, inclusive, shall be deemed to mean the respective kinds of spirits of turpentine having properties that conform with the standard specifications adopted therefor by the American Society for Testing Materials, contained in appendix A to this part.
§ 160.12
Standard designations for rosin.
(a) Rosin within the meaning of the act and the provisions in this part shall be designated as “gum rosin,” “wood rosin,” or “tall oil rosin,” as the case may be.
(b) The designation “gum rosin” shall refer to the kind of rosin remaining after the distillation of gum spirits of turpentine from the oleoresin (gum) obtained from living pine trees.
(c) The designation “wood rosin” shall refer to the kind of rosin recovered after the distillation of the volatile oil from the oleoresin within or extracted from pine wood by any suitable process, followed by any necessary further refinement.
(d) The designation “tall oil rosin” shall refer to the kind of rosin remaining after the removal of the fatty acids from tall oil by fractional distillation, and having the characteristic form and appearance and other physical and chemical properties normal for other kinds of rosin.
§ 160.13
Grade designations for rosin.
The grades of rosin shall be designated, from highest to lowest, by the following letters, respectively: XC, XB, XA, X, WW, WG, N, M, K, I, H, G, F, E, D, B. In addition, the letters OP shall be used to designate the grade of opaque rosin, and the letters FF shall be used to designate the grade of normal wood rosin:
Provided,
That the product recovered in the refining of wood rosin, that is darker in color than the standard for FF grade, and that contains rosin acids in lesser quantity than is normal for such rosin, shall be graded and designated as B wood resin.
[11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 33 FR 8722, June 14, 1968]
§ 160.14
Opaque rosin.
The term “opaque rosin” shall apply to the article resulting when rosin undergoes internal modification indicated by a turbid, clouded, or opaque appearance, that is, loss of transparency, brought about by the occlusion of moisture or the formation of an excessive quantity of resin acid crystals in the rosin.

# Establishment of New and Modified Standards
§ 160.15
New standards.
Whenever in the opinion of the Administrator a new standard for any naval stores is necessary in the interest of the trade, he shall announce a hearing thereon, to be held not less than 3 months subsequent to such announcement. Notice of the hearing stating the terms or description of the proposed new standard, or a summary thereof, shall be given by publication in the
Federal Register
and by such other means as may be practicable. The hearing shall be conducted by an official designated by the Administrator, and reasonable opportunity shall be afforded at the hearing to all interested persons to present their views, arguments and data, verbally or in writing, in favor of or in opposition to the proposed new standard. All relevant material presented at said hearing, or a summary thereof, and a recommendation as to adoption or rejection of the proposed new standard shall be transmitted to the Administrator for his consideration. A new standard established and promulgated by the Administrator shall become effective not less than 3 months after the promulgation thereof.
§ 160.16
Modification of existing standards.
Whenever in the opinion of the Administrator a modification of an existing standard for naval stores is necessary in the interest of the trade, he shall announce a hearing thereon, to be held not less than 6 months subsequent to such announcement. Notice of the hearing stating the terms or description of the proposed modification of any standard, or a summary thereof, shall be given by publication in the
Federal Register
and by such other means as may be practicable. The hearing shall be conducted by an official designated by the Administrator, and reasonable opportunity shall be afforded to all interested persons to present their views, arguments and data, verbally or in writing, in favor of or in opposition to the proposed modification. All relevant material presented at said hearing, or a summary thereof, and a recommendation as to adoption or rejection of the proposed modification shall be transmitted to the Administrator for his consideration. A modified standard established and promulgated by the Administrator shall become effective not less than 6 months after the promulgation thereof.

# Methods of Analysis, Inspection, Sampling and Grading
§ 160.17
Laboratory analysis.
The analysis and laboratory testing of naval stores shall be conducted, so far as is practicable, according to methods of the American Society for Testing Materials. When any such method is deemed to be insufficient or unsuitable or when no method has been so presented, the analysis shall be made according to any method deemed appropriate by the Administrator.
§ 160.18
Determining the grade of rosin.
The grade of rosin shall be determined by comparing a representative sample, taken and prepared in accordance with the provisions in this part, with the appropriate standard types. The grade shall be the grade designation of the standard type which the sample equals or excels in color, but below the next higher grade.
§ 160.19
Samples of rosin for grading.
Samples of rosin for grading shall be approximately cubical in shape, and shall be seven-eighths inch thick in the direction through which they are viewed or graded. Samples may be taken by any of the following methods:
(a) By cutting or cleaving the same from a lump of the rosin removed from the solid mass in the barrel or drum, the top side of which lump shall come from not less than 4 inches below the surface of the rosin.
(b) By placing a tin mold of suitable design inside the barrel or drum through an opening in the side, the center of which opening is approximately 9 inches from the top or 12 inches from the bottom so that when the container is filled, the rosin within the mold will have come from a position not less than 4 inches below the surface of the rosin. The mold thus
placed must be entirely within the barrel or drum and completely encased in the rosin.
(c) By suspending in the barrel or drum of molten rosin a clean tinplate mold,
7/8
inch square (inside) and 1
1/2
inches or more in length, in such a manner that it will be in a horizontal position at least 2 inches below the surface of the rosin after it has thoroughly cooled. Such sample shall not be spiked from the barrel or drum until it is completely cooled.
(d) By withdrawing a quantity of molten rosin from a full container of 150 pounds content or less, pouring the rosin into a suitable mold, and allowing it to cool and solidify slowly:
Provided,
That samples taken to represent a single batch or charge made by intermittent distillation of oleoresin shall be taken from not less than two containers, one of which shall be selected when one fourth of the batch has been placed in the containers, and the other shall be from the last container filled.
(e) By withdrawing a quantity of molten rosin from a full drum that has been filled after a preliminary cooling period, pouring the rosin into a suitable mold, and allowing it to cool and solidify slowly:
Provided,
That such sample shall not be taken until at least one hour has elapsed after the drum was filled:
And provided further,
That the selection of drums to be sampled shall be in accordance with the method of selecting small containers as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Rosin in drums sampled in this manner will be graded and certified only when the sampling is performed by an official inspector. Rosin in open head barrels shall not be sampled by this method.
(f) By collecting in a suitable vessel a quantity of molten rosin from each successive batch or charge as it is delivered into a tank car, pouring the respective quantities of rosin into suitable molds, and allowing them to cool and solidify:
Provided,
That any darkening of the rosin subsequent to such sampling will not be recognized as affecting the correctness of the grades assigned to the rosin at the time it was loaded in the car. Rosin so sampled while in process of being placed in a tank car will be graded and certified only when the sampling is performed by an official inspector.
§ 160.20
More than one grade in a container.
When a sample from the bottom of a barrel or drum shows not more than one grade lower than that of a top sample taken in accordance with § 160.19, the grade of the rosin shall be that of such top sample:
Provided,
That if such “bottom head” sample shows more than one grade lower than the top sample, the grade assigned to the rosin shall be that of the darkest or lowest grade of rosin in the container.
§ 160.21
Rosin not fit for grading.
An article consisting of rosin with an excessive amount of trash or other visible extraneous foreign material, or an article that is of such color or appearance as not to permit its accurate classification and grading in accordance with the standards provided for rosin, shall not be classified, graded, marked, sold, or offered for sale in commerce as rosin.
§ 160.22
Collecting samples; issuing certificates.
The collection of official samples for the purpose of putting into effect any of the provisions of the act, and the issuance of certificates reporting the results of any analysis, classification, or grading shall be limited to official inspectors and to such other personnel of the Department as may be authorized.
§ 160.23
Disposition of samples.
All samples taken by an official inspector or submitted by an interested person shall become and remain the property of the Department, to be disposed of as the Administrator may determine.

# Analysis, Inspection, and Grading on Request
§ 160.24
Inspection on request.
Insofar as it may be practicable, official inspectors shall sample, analyze, classify, or grade any naval stores at the request of any interested person, as provided for by the act and in accordance with the provisions in this part.
§ 160.24a
Inspection as to condition of drums containing rosin and the quality and condition of the rosin therein upon request.
Before or after the shipment in commerce of any lot of rosin in drums from a processing or storage point, and upon request by an interested person, an inspection may be made by an official inspector of the external appearance of the drums, and a report may be made by such inspector, on the basis of such inspection, of the condition, including soundness, of the drums with reference to the effect thereof upon the quality, and preservation of the quality, of the rosin in the drums. In conjunction with such service, when practicable, the inspector may upon similar request determine and certify the grade, class, other quality, or condition of the rosin within the drums, and report the internal condition of the drums, under any applicable standards and procedural instructions issued to such inspector by the Administrator. Certificates and reports issued under this section will be furnished only to the interested person requesting the service. Fees and charges for service under this section shall be paid by such interested person in accordance with §§ 160.201, 160.202, and 160.204.
[20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955]
§ 160.25
How requests shall be made.
An interested person desiring the analysis, classification, or grading of any naval stores, or of samples thereof, shall submit to the nearest official inspector a written request, in which he shall state the number and kind of containers of rosin, or the number and kind of containers and the number of gallons of turpentine, as the case may be, together with the name of the interested person for whose account such service is requested, his interest in the naval stores, and other information by which the identity of the naval stores in question and the propriety of its examination may be determined. Requests for seasonal or recurrent services shall so indicate, and the approximate quantity of naval stores to be graded and the duration of the desired service shall be stated. Fees for such service shall be paid in accordance with the provisions in this part.
§ 160.26
Withdrawal of request.
A request for service under the provisions in this part may be withdrawn at any time before the service has been completed, on notice to the official inspector:
Provided, however,
That the interested person shall reimburse the United States for the time spent and any expenses incurred prior to receipt of such withdrawal notice.
§ 160.27
Containers to be made ready.
The interested person shall cause the naval stores to be made available, and shall provide any held required to remove the bungs or heads, or otherwise open the containers for sampling, to spike the rosin or extract the sampler devices from the barrels or drums, to rebung or otherwise close the containers, to handle the commodity for weighing, and to mark the containers at the direction of the official inspector.
§ 160.28
Tank cars of turpentine.
A tank car loaded for shipment with spirits of turpentine shall, after the same has been sampled for analysis, classification, and certification, be sealed by the official inspector. Any certificate issued thereon prior to shipment shall be valid only for a reasonable time to permit arrival at destination, and only so long as the seals placed thereon by the inspector remain unbroken.
§ 160.29
Containers to remain intact.
The results of any analysis, classification, or grading of naval stores will be certifiable only if the containers holding such naval stores remain intact as sampled until the analysis, classification, or grading has been completed and the results reported, except when the container is a tank car subject to demurrage.
§ 160.30
Contents of containers to be designated.
Prior to inspection at the request of the producer, containers of naval stores, other than tank cars, shall have marked thereon a designation by such producer of the kind or identity of the
product in accordance with the standard of identity provided therefor by or under the act.
§ 160.31
Time and manner of sampling.
Except when batch sampling is authorized at an eligible processing plant using licensed inspectors, samples of naval stores to be used for official inspection and certification shall be taken direct from the commercial containers holding such naval stores by or under the immediate supervision of the inspector at the time of inspection.
§ 160.32
Marking containers.
The interested person shall provide any labor necessary for marking the containers, after the contents have been sampled and graded, at the direction of the official inspector. The container of an article which does not conform with any United States Standard for naval stores as to kind or grade, shall not be marked or certified, and any unauthorized marks appearing on the container shall be removed.
§ 160.33
Containers not acceptable for inspection.
Any container so filled or packed as to conceal the fact that it contains anything other than naval stores within the meaning of the act or the provisions in this part, and any naval stores in a container deemed by an official inspector to be unsuitable for use as a container of naval stores in commerce, shall not be accepted for classification or grading.
§ 160.34
Responsibility of interested person.
The sampling or acceptance of any sample of naval stores by an official inspector for use in grading and certifying the same at the request of an interested person, or the placing of any incorrect classification or grade marks upon the container thereof, or the issue of any incorrect certificate inadvertently to cover the contents, because of inability of the inspector to observe the true condition of the naval stores, shall not prevent the correction or recall of any such certificate, nor relieve the interested person from responsibility for the condition of the article or its container.
§ 160.35
Illegible inspection marks.
In case any mark placed on a container of rosin by or under the direction of an official inspector has become illegible, he will make such examination before remarking as may be necessary to establish the proper grade or identity of the rosin. No fee will be charged for this service, but the cost of handling, opening, spiking, and closing the container shall be borne by the interested person.
§ 160.36
Authority for changing marks.
No mark placed upon any container of naval stores by or at the direction of an official inspector shall be obliterated, covered up, defaced, or otherwise made illegible, except under authority of an official inspector.
§ 160.37
Prior marks to be removed.
Any marking appearing on a container to be used for naval stores, relating to the kind, classification, grade, certification, or method of inspection of naval stores shall be removed by the user whenever such marking does not in all respects describe the kind, classification, grade, certification, and method of inspection of the naval stores to be placed therein.

# Request Inspection by Licensed Inspectors
§ 160.38
Permit to use licensed inspector.
Any naval stores produced at an eligible processing plant, as herein defined, may be inspected, classified, graded, and certified by a licensed inspector, after the accredited processor has applied to and has been granted a permit by the Administrator to use a licensed inspector.
§ 160.39
Form of application for license or permit.
Applications for licenses to inspect and permits to have inspections made by licensed inspectors shall be made to the Administrator upon forms provided for the purposes. Each such application shall fully and truly state the information therein required and shall be signed by the applicant.
§ 160.40
Applicant for license to be examined.
Each applicant for a license shall be required to demonstrate his qualifications and competency to perform the duties of an official inspector at such time and place and in such manner as may be determined by the Administrator.
§ 160.41
Issuance of temporary license.
In a case of special urgency, and in the discretion of the Administrator, a temporary license may be issued without reference to § 160.40 upon presentation of satisfactory evidence by the accredited processor of the need therefor and the competency of the applicant for such temporary license. Such processor shall receive prompt notice of the issuance of any such temporary license. A temporary licensee shall be subject to all the provisions in this part. A temporary license shall be valid for a specified period not to exceed 30 days, except that if application is made for a permanent license by a person at the same time he applies for a temporary license, any temporary license issued to him shall not expire until a permanent license has been denied or granted.
§ 160.42
Limitation of license.
The license issued by the Administrator to a licensed inspector of naval stores shall state the name of the processing plant or plants at which the licensee may perform the duties of an official inspector, and shall be countersigned by such official as may be designated and authorized.
§ 160.43
Licensed inspector to be disinterested.
No person who determines or controls sales policies or methods of distribution of an eligible processing plant, or the selling prices of the naval stores processed at such plant, shall be licensed as an inspector.
§ 160.44
Other duties of licensed inspectors.
A licensed inspector may perform duties other than those of an official inspector, to the extent indicated by the accredited processor and not disapproved in writing by the Administrator:
Provided,
That such additional duties not pertaining to the official inspection work shall not be permitted to interfere with the proper performance of the duties of the licensee as an official inspector.
§ 160.45
Conditions governing licensed inspection.
The work performed by licensed inspectors under the provisions in this part shall be supervised and reviewed by authorized representatives of the Administrator, who shall issue to such licensed inspectors instructions for taking, preserving, and identifying samples; marking and maintaining the identity of containers when filled; preparing, issuing, and disposing of certificates; the keeping of adequate inspection records; and such other procedures as may be necessary in carrying out the licensed inspection. The handling, sampling, grading, marking, and certification of naval stores at an eligible processing plant by a licensed inspector shall be conducted in accordance with such instructions and the provisions in this part.
§ 160.46
Identification of containers.
Containers packed with naval stores which have been inspected, classified, graded, and certified by a licensed inspector at an eligible processing plant shall be marked to show the name and location or other acceptable identification of the plant, and the legend “U.S. Graded” or “U.S. Inspected”, and, in the case of rosin, the batch number indicating the date of production.
§ 160.47
Periodic re-inspection.
Any eligible processing plant may from time to time be re-inspected and any rosin produced by such plant may be graded or re-graded by any official inspector authorized to make such examinations. The results of such examinations shall be made known only to the affected processor, the licensed inspector, and to such employees of the Department officially authorized to receive such information.
§ 160.48
Form of certificate.
The certificates issued under this part by licensed inspectors shall be on forms approved by the Administrator.
§ 160.49
Responsibility for inspection certificates and forms.
Certificate forms and other inspection record forms may be issued to an accredited processor, and the said processor shall be responsible for and accountable to the Department for all such material supplied to him. He shall require the licensed inspector to submit or otherwise make disposition of issued certificates in accordance with instructions received from the Administrator.
§ 160.50
Reports to be made by accredited processors.
Each accredited processor shall furnish the Administrator such reports and other information relative to the operation and output of his eligible processing plant as the Administrator may deem necessary or appropriate for the administration of the provisions in this part applicable to licensed inspection, subject to the approval of the Bureau of the Budget. Failure by an accredited processor to keep such records as may be necessary for him to submit correct reports, or failure by the processor to supply correct information to the Administrator shall be deemed a violation of the provisions in this part, and cause for suspension or revocation of his inspection permit.
§ 160.51
Report of non-conformance.
Each licensed inspector shall promptly report to his supervising inspector and to the accredited processor, any evidence of which he has knowledge indicating non-conformance with the provisions in this part, and shall also so report any attempt or effort to influence him to sample, grade, or certify any naval stores incorrectly or contrary to the provisions in this part.
§ 160.52
Suspension or revocation of licenses.
(a) Any license to inspect, grade, and certify naval stores may be suspended or revoked for repeated failure by the licensee correctly to inspect, grade, classify, or certify naval stores, or upon the persistence of any condition which renders him unfit to perform the duties of a licensed inspector, or for other continued non-conformance with any provision of the act or the provisions in this part. A license may be suspended for similar failures, conditions or non-conformance of shorter duration or less serious nature.
(b) A license to inspect, grade and certify naval stores may be summarily suspended or revoked by any official authorized to issue or countersign such licenses where the public health, interest, or safety so requires or for willful acts or omissions by the licensee which constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of his license under paragraph (a) of this section. In all other cases, prior to the institution of proceedings for the suspension or revocation of a license, such authorized official shall cause to be served upon the licensee, in person or by registered mail, a statement of the facts which appear to warrant such suspension or revocation, specifying a reasonable time, depending upon the circumstances in each case, within which the licensee may demonstrate or achieve compliance with the act, and the provisions in this part. The licensee may demonstrate compliance by the presentation of evidence in writing or, in the discretion of such authorized official, at an oral hearing. If, at the end of the time allowed for the licensee to demonstrate or achieve compliance, such authorized official finds he is in compliance, his license shall not be suspended or revoked. If such authorized official finds the licensee is not in compliance, the license may be suspended or revoked after service upon the licensee, in person or by registered mail, of a notice that such action is under consideration for reasons specified in the statement of facts previously served upon him and after reasonable opportunity is given the licensee to present further evidence in his behalf. Within 7 days after receipt of notice of the suspension or revocation of his license, the inspector by letter may appeal to the Administrator for its reinstatement and may attach to such letter any evidence he may wish to submit.
§ 160.53
Stopping inspection by suspended inspector.
An accredited processor upon receipt of notice of the suspension or revocation of a license shall discontinue the
use of the licensee as an official inspector, and the marking of his products to indicate official inspection, until the suspension is lifted, or another inspector is licensed or assigned.
§ 160.54
Suspension or revocation of permits.
(a) Any permit issued to an accredited processor to have naval stores inspected, graded, and certified by a licensed inspector may be suspended or revoked for the failure of the processor, after official notice, to correct any condition which renders his plant unqualified for licensed inspection service, or for repeated or continued non-conformance with any other provision of the act or the provisions in this part. A permit may be suspended for similar non-conformance or failure of shorter duration or less serious nature.
(b) A permit for licensed inspection may be summarily suspended or revoked by any official authorized to issue or countersign such permits where the public health, interest, or safety so requires or for willful acts or omissions by the permittee which constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of his permit under paragraph (a) of this section. In all other cases, prior to the institution of proceedings for the suspension or revocation of a permit, such authorized official shall cause to be served upon the permittee, in person or by registered mail, a statement of the facts which appear to warrant such suspension or revocation, specifying a reasonable time, depending upon the circumstances in each case, within which the permittee may demonstrate or achieve compliance with the act and the provisions in this part. The permittee may demonstrate compliance by the presentation of evidence in writing or, in the discretion of such authorized official, at an oral hearing. If, at the end of the time allowed for the permittee to demonstrate or achieve compliance, such authorized official finds he is in compliance, his permit shall not be suspended or revoked. If such authorized official finds the permittee is not in compliance, the permit may be suspended or revoked after service upon the permittee, in person or by registered mail, of a notice that such action is under consideration for reasons specified in the statement of facts previously served upon him after reasonable opportunity is given the permittee to present further evidence in his behalf. Within 7 days after receipt of notice of the suspension or revocation of his permit, the processor by letter may appeal to the Administrator for its reinstatement, and may attach to such letter any evidence he may wish to submit.
§ 160.55
Voluntary discontinuance of licensed inspection.
An accredited processor desiring to discontinue the use of licensed inspectors for making official inspections, gradings, and certifications of naval stores, shall give not less than 30 days notice in writing to the Administrator of the intention to discontinue such service. At the termination of the service such processor shall surrender to the authorized representative of the Administrator the permit for licensed inspection, together with all unused certificates, forms, or other supplies and equipment furnished by the Department and held by the processor for the use of his licensed inspectors, other than standards or such other material as may be covered by a separate loan application or agreement.
§ 160.56
Compensation of licensed inspectors.
Each licensed inspector shall be paid directly by the accredited processor for his services as an official inspector and for such other services or duties to which he may be assigned in accordance with § 160.44:
Provided,
That whenever the Administrator shall deem it to be in the best interest of the Federal inspection service, he may require such processor to report to him the terms and amounts of compensation paid to a licensed inspector during any specified period.
§ 160.57
Fees for licensed inspection permits.
Each accredited processor shall pay to the Department annually such permit fee for each eligible processing plant for which a permit has been issued, as may be prescribed by the Administrator.
§ 160.58
Fees for inspection and certification by licensed inspectors.
Each accredited processor for whom naval stores have been inspected and certified hereunder by a licensed inspector during any calendar month shall on receipt of invoice pay to the Department the fee for each container of naval stores so inspected and certified as may be prescribed by the Administrator.
§ 160.59
Appeal inspections.
Any inspection certificate issued by a licensed inspector may be appealed in writing to the Administrator, such appeal to state the circumstances, the certificate number, and the quantity and certified grade of the naval stores covered thereby. A prompt regrade inspection shall be made by an official inspector other than the original inspector.
§ 160.60
Charge for appeal inspection.
If the findings in an appeal inspection confirm the original inspection, the accredited processor shall pay for such reinspection in accordance with the fees established for original inspections made by inspectors who are paid employees of the Department. If the findings do not confirm the original inspection, a corrected certificate will be issued and no charge will be made for re-inspection.

# Certificates and Reports
§ 160.61
Kinds of certificates issued.
A certificate as provided for by section 4 of the act shall be issued to the interested person in duplicate covering naval stores examined at his request, and additional copies, if desired, may be obtained from the inspector. The kind of certificates issued are as follows:
(a) Turpentine analysis and classification certificate.
(b) Turpentine field classification certificate.
(c) Rosin classification and grade certificate.
(d) Rosin grade and weight certificate.
(e) Loan and sale certificate for United States graded rosin.
(f) Classification and grade certificate for rosin in small containers.
§ 160.62
When a certificate may be issued.
A certificate showing the results of any analysis, classification, or grading shall be issued on any naval stores which conform with a United States Standard as to kind and grade and which have been sampled by or under the direction and supervision of an official inspector in accordance with the provisions in this part. The certificate shall be valid only so long as the naval stores described therein shall remain under seal or in the identical condition obtaining at the time of their examination.
§ 160.63
When a certificate may not be issued.
No certificate shall be issued for naval stores unless the naval stores have been packed, sampled, marked, and identified as required by the provisions in this part, and otherwise conform with the act and such provisions. The results of the examination of such naval stores or anything offered as such may be covered by a written report, which in no case shall be construed as a certificate.
§ 160.64
Issuance of loan and sale certificate.
On request of the owner, a “Loan and Sale Certificate for United States Graded Rosin” (designated “L. S. Certificate” in this part) may be issued to cover any rosin for which a Rosin Classification and Grade Certificate has previously been issued by an official inspector, and which remains in the original container. No inspector shall issue and L. S. Certificate until he has made certain that the rosin had previously been officially inspected and certified. The request for such certificate may be made to the nearest inspector.
§ 160.65
Prior certification required.
If an L. S. Certificate is desired for a quantity of rosin, a part of which has not been previously classified and graded by an official inspector and covered by a certificate, such part shall be so inspected, classified, graded, marked,
and certified, as provided by the provisions in this part.

# Fees and Charges for Services Rendered
§ 160.66
Fees for inspection services.
The Administrator shall from time to time establish fees and charges for examination, sampling, classification, grading, analysis and certification of naval stores as he may deem fair and reasonable, and commensurate with the cost of the service rendered. Such fees and charges may be announced to the trade in such manner as the Administrator considers practicable.
§ 160.67
Fees under cooperative agreements.
Fees and charges for any inspection and grading service covered by the terms of any cooperative agreement with any interested person may be established by and incorporated into such agreement.
§ 160.68
Collection of fees.
Beginning October 1, 1981, all fees and charges assessed to interested parties for services rendered under the Naval Stores Act shall be collected by the Director, Tobacco Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, to cover insofar as practicable, all costs of providing such services. Such fees shall be credited to the Division in accordance with fiscal regulations of the Department.
[47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.69
Expenses to be borne by person requesting service.
All expenses incurred by the United States in connection with the sampling, analysis, classification, or grading of naval stores on request, not otherwise provided for by suitable regulation, shall be borne by the person making the request.
[11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955. Redesignated at 46 FR 47055, Sept. 24, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.70
Rendition of claims.
As soon as practicable after the end of each month, or sooner if deemed advisable, there shall be mailed to each interested person at whose request any services have been performed, a claim for payment of moneys due the United States for the services rendered or for the loan or repair of any standards.
[11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955. Redesignated at 46 FR 47055, Sept. 24, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.71
Delinquent claims.
Any claim remaining unpaid after 30 days from the date of its rendition shall be considered as delinquent, and notice thereof shall be brought to the attention of the interested person. After a claim becomes delinquent, the Administrator shall suspend or deny inspection and related services to any interested party who has failed to make timely payment of the fees and charges assessed, as well as any claims which have been rendered, and shall take such action as may be necessary to collect any amounts due. A deposit in advance sufficient to cover the fees and expenses for any subsequent service may be required of any person failing to pay his claim after issuance of such notice of delinquency.
[11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955. Redesignated and amended at 46 FR 47055, Sept. 24, 1981; 47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]

# Loan and Care of United States Standards
§ 160.73
Availability of standards.
(a)
Standards available on loan.
Duplicates of the United States Standards provided by the Department for classifying and grading rosin in commerce, shall remain the property of the Department, and may be loaned, but not sold, to such interested persons as may be approved by the Administrator. Any interested person desiring the loan of duplicates of the United States Standards for rosin shall submit to the Administrator a form application, properly signed, which will show his interest in naval stores and his eligibility to receive and use such duplicates, in accordance with the provisions in this part. Standards so loaned shall be returned promptly on request.
(b)
Standards available for purchase.
Duplicate cubes for rosin standard
grades XA, XB, and XC are not available from the Department but may be obtained commercially.
[11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955; 33 FR 8722, June 14, 1968]
§ 160.74
Loan of standards without security.
Duplicates of the United States Standards for rosin may be loaned without deposit of security, insofar as the supply in the possession of the Department will permit, to:
(a) Any State, County, or Municipal official duly authorized to inspect and grade rosin, who is actually engaged in inspection and grading work, and who shall have been approved by the Administrator to act as custodian of such standards.
(b) Any bona fide dealer or distributor of rosin who shall have been approved by the Administrator to act as depositary for such standards, and who shall maintain and operate a regular naval stores yard which is available to and is regularly used by other persons for the purpose of having rosin inspected, graded, stored, or sold thereon:
Provided, however,
That a person whose principal use of such standards is the grading of rosin of his own production shall not be deemed to come within the scope of this paragraph, but shall be required to post the security provided for in § 160.75:
And provided, further,
That no person shall receive more than two sets of duplicates under this paragraph.
(c) Any trade organization or institution of higher learning having a direct relationship to the production or marketing of naval stores other than by reason of the private interests or operations of its individual members, when in the opinion of the Administrator such standards are necessary to the normal functioning of the organization or institution.
§ 160.75
Loan of standards under security deposit.
Duplicates of the United States Standards for rosin may be loaned to interested persons other than those specified in § 160.74, on deposit with the Department of security in the sum of $100, by remittance payable to the Treasurer of the United States.
§ 160.76
Annual charge for use of standards.
The cost of providing duplicates of the United States Standards for rosin, and of maintaining such duplicates in accurate and proper condition for use in grading rosin, and of keeping necessary records thereof, shall be borne by the interested persons to whom the duplicates have been issued under § 160.74 (a) or (b) or § 160.75, and shall be defrayed by an annual charge of $20.00 for each set of duplicates, payable at the end of each Government fiscal year, or on surrender of the duplicates, computed pro-rata for the number of quarters of the fiscal year during which the duplicates were held:
Provided,
That when any set of standards issued on loan shall need servicing more often than once in any fiscal year, in order to maintain them in accurate condition for grading, and the need for such extra servicing is deemed by the Administrator to be the result of improper handling and use of the standards by the interested person or his agent, such person shall pay an additional amount of $30.00 for each such additional servicing, plus the cost of any parts or components of the standards replaced in such servicing, and any postage charges incurred by the Department in connection therewith.
[11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955; 46 FR 47055, Sept. 24, 1981; 47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.77
Reporting on use of standards.
Each person to whom any duplicates of the United States Standards for rosin have been loaned under any provision in this part shall, from time to time, submit such reports on the use and condition thereof as may be required by the Administrator.
§ 160.78
Loss or damage of standards.
In case any duplicates become damaged or are missing, the person to whom they were loaned shall promptly inform the Administrator in writing, stating what damage or loss was sustained and how the same occurred. The cost of making necessary repairs to
any duplicates, or of replacing those damaged beyond repair, or missing, shall be paid promptly by the person to whom they were originally loaned.
§ 160.79
Request for additional standards.
Any person to whom any duplicates have been loaned without security deposit, who shall request and be granted the loan of additional duplicates to replace the original ones, shall be required to deposit the security provided for in § 160.75 prior to the loan of such additional duplicates. If the set of duplicates first loaned to such person, or any part thereof, is recovered, it shall be returned for inspection or repair. The cost of any repairs or replacements shall be paid, whereupon such original set may be returned to such person, and he shall surrender the second set, on receipt of which the security posted therefor shall be returned.
§ 160.80
Denial of loan of additional standards.
It shall be deemed impracticable under the act to loan additional duplicates to any person who has permitted duplicates previously loaned to him, without security, to become lost, damaged, or destroyed, if in the opinion of the Administrator, such loss, damage, or destruction resulted from any failure on the part of the interested person or his agent to take suitable precaution to prevent the loss, damage, or destruction, or when the available supply of duplicates is deemed insufficient to warrant the loan of additional duplicates to such person.
§ 160.81
Surrender of standards.
On the death of any person, or the dissolution or reorganization of any partnership, firm, or corporation, holding any duplicates of the United States Standards for rosin, they shall be promptly returned to the Administrator by the holder thereof.
§ 160.82
Return of security.
The security deposit received from any person to whom duplicates of the United States Standards for rosin have been loaned will be held in the special deposit account of the Department, and the same will be returned to the person from whom received, or his legal representative, on surrender of the duplicates secured thereby:
Provided,
That before refund is made the cost of any repairs or replacement shall be deducted.
§ 160.83
Miscellaneous receipts.
All moneys received or withheld to cover the cost of repairs, or of replacing any missing parts of duplicates, or as rental for duplicates, shall be paid into the United States Treasury as Miscellaneous Receipts.

# Sales and Shipments
§ 160.84
Identification of shipments.
The invoice or contract of sale of any naval stores in commerce shall identify and describe the article in accordance with the classification and the standard of kind and grade provided by the act or established by the Administrator.
§ 160.85
Sale of mixed turpentine not lawful.
Since no standard has been provided for a mixture of two or more kinds of spirits of turpentine, the sale in commerce of any such mixture is prohibited under any designation.
§ 160.86
Prohibited use of United States Standards.
It shall be deemed unlawful under any condition to sell, under or by reference to any United States Standard for naval stores, as provided by the act and defined in the regulations in this part, any article which fails to conform with such standard in all respects:
Provided,
That the phrase “under or by reference to United States Standards” as it appears in the act and the regulations in this part, shall include the use of any words, letters, brands, labels, or marks constituting any of the United States Standards for naval stores on any container of naval stores, on anything attached to or supplied therewith on delivery, or on any inspection, sale, or shipping record or invoice, in describing the kind, classification, or grade of the naval stores covered thereby.
§ 160.87
Prohibited use of word “turpentine” or derivatives thereof.
It shall be deemed unlawful to use in commerce the word “turpentine” or a compound, derivative or imitation thereof, or any word or combination of words which are a part of a United States Standard for any kind of spirits of turpentine, to describe in any manner a mixture of spirits of turpentine with any other oil or solvent.
§ 160.88
Permitted use of words “turpentine” and “rosin.”
The use of the word “turpentine” or the word “rosin” is not prohibited in the name of an article made, prepared, or processed from spirits of turpentine or rosin, or to indicate the process whereby such article was made or prepared:
Provided,
That this section shall not apply to any article covered by § 160.87.
§ 160.89
Medicinal preparations.
A compound or mixture containing spirits of turpentine or rosin, or both, with other drugs, when sold for medicinal purposes, is not subject to the provisions of the Naval Stores Act or of the provisions in this part.

# Labeling, Advertising and Packing
§ 160.90
False, misleading, or deceitful practices.
No label or other means or practice used in connection with the sale of naval stores in commerce or of anything offered as such shall be false, misleading, or deceitful in any manner.
§ 160.91
Meaning of words “pine” and “pine tree.”
The words “pine” or “pine tree,” when used to designate the source of spirits of turpentine, shall be deemed to mean a living, growing plant of the genus
Pinus,
family Pinaceae, unless the words “wood of” are used in connection therewith. The terms “oleoresin of the southern pine” or “oleoresin from the southern pine” shall be deemed to mean the gum or oleoresin exuded by such living, growing trees, the source of gum spirits of turpentine.
§ 160.92
Meaning of word “gallon.”
The word “gallon,” when used on or impressed into any container of spirits of turpentine, or when used in an invoice referring to spirits of turpentine in containers of 10 gallons content or less, shall mean a United States standard gallon of 231 cubic inches of turpentine, regardless of any other definitive terms used therewith:
Provided,
That this shall not apply to the meaning of the words “imperial gallon”, when placed on containers intended for foreign shipment. For the purpose of these regulations a measured gallon of turpentine, or any indicated multiple or fractional part thereof, shall be such quantity when measured at a temperature of not more than 75 °Fahrenheit, and a weighed gallon shall be construed to mean 7.2 pounds of turpentine.
§ 160.93
Powdered rosin.
The classification and grade of any rosin sold in commerce in a powdered or finely broken condition shall be stated in the invoice or contract of sale in accordance with the kind and grade of the rosin before it was powdered or broken. For the purpose of preventing coalescence there may be incorporated in such article a limited and necessary quantity of inert, nonresinous foreign material:
Provided,
That the nature and quantity of such inert material shall be stated on the label.
§ 160.94
Spirits of turpentine for medicinal use.
Spirits of turpentine so packed, described, labeled, or sold as to indicate that it is offered as a medicament shall nevertheless be subject to the requirements of the Naval Stores Act and of the provisions in this part, as well as any requirements under any other statute.

# Proceedings in Case of Violation
§ 160.95
Proceedings prior to reporting violations of the act.
Whenever it shall appear to the Administrator that any violation of the act should be reported to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action, he shall serve notice in writing upon the person apparently responsible for the alleged violation
and shall give such person an opportunity to show in duplicate to the Administrator within 20 days after the receipt of such notice why the alleged violation should not be reported to the Department of Justice. The person so notified may within the period stated apply for an opportunity to present his views in person, or by his attorney. If the Administrator deems the request appropriate he will designate a time and place for hearing the applicant.
§ 160.96
Report of violations for prosecution.
In the event of failure of the person notified of an apparent violation of the act to submit to the Administrator a written answer as provided in § 160.95, or if, after such person has filed his answer or in addition, been given an opportunity to present his views orally, no sufficient reason has been shown why the alleged violation should not be reported for prosecution, the General Counsel of the Department, acting for and on behalf of the Administrator, shall report the alleged violation to the Department of Justice for appropriate action.
§ 160.97
Publication.
Composite data regarding inspections, analyses, classifications, and grading of naval stores made under any provision of the act or the provisions in this part may be published from time to time in such mediums as the Administrator may designate for the purpose.

# Specific Fees Payable for Services Rendered
§ 160.201
Fees generally for field inspection and certification of naval stores and drum containers of rosin.
Except as provided in § 160.204, the following fees shall be paid to the United States for the field inspection and certification of naval stores and drum containers of rosin, not conducted under a cooperative agreement and where laboratory analysis or testing is not required:
(a)
Inspections by licensed inspectors at eligible processing plants.
(1) Rosin (grading and incidental certification as to class, condition and weight).
(i) In drums (see Note 1) per drum—$1.24.
(ii) In 100 pound bags (see Note 1) per bag—$.23.
(iii) In tank cars, per car—$67.50.
(iv) In tank trucks, per truck—$34.00.
(2) Turpentine (Grading and incidental certification as to class, condition and volume).
(i) In 55 gallon drums, per drum—$2.25.
(ii) In tank cars or trucks, per unit of 100 gallons—$1.41.
(iii) In bulk for delivery to tank steamer, per unit of 100 gallons—$2.25.
(b) Inspections by regularly employed, salaried Federal inspectors.
(1) Rosin.
(i) Grading and weighing at concentration and storage yards, per drum—$4.05.
(ii) Irregular inspection and grading at distillation or processing plants, up to 400 drums, per drum—$3.60; all over 400 drums, per drum—$2.25.
(iii) Weighing at concentration and storage yards, subsequent to grading, per drum—$2.25.
(iv) Examination of the external or internal appearance and condition of filled rosin drums, and of the rosin contained therein—See Note 2 and § 160.204.
(v) Re-certification under L.S. Certificate of rosin moving in commerce, per drum—$.23.
(2) Turpentine (inspection and certification as to kind, condition, volume, etc.).
(i) In drums of 55 gallons, per drum—$3.38.
(ii) In tank cars or trucks, per unit of 100 gallons—$2.81.
(iii) For bulk delivery to tank steamer, per unit of 100 gallons—$2.25.

# Note 1:
When the number of drums and bags inspected and certified at any plant during any calendar month is equivalent to a total of 2,400 or more drums (counting five bags as equivalent to one drum), the fee shall be computed at the rate of $1.01 per drum and $.18 per bag certified. For quantities less than the equivalent of 2,400 drums, the fee shall be computed at the prescribed rate of $1.24 per drum and $.23 per bag.

# Note 2:
The inspection or related examination of containers of rosin and their contents under Section B(1)(iv) shall be performed only after the inspector or the Chief of the Marketing Programs Branch has been advised regarding the location, nature, scope, and purpose of the service desired, and the
charge to be made therefore has been submitted to and accepted by the requesting person.
[47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.202
Fees generally for laboratory analysis and testing.
Except as provided in § 160.204, the following fees shall be paid to the United States for laboratory analysis and testing of naval stores, when not performed in the conduct of a cooperative agreement with respect to such products:
(a)
Rosin and turpentine.
(See Note 3).
(1) Comprehensive analysis to determine purity, specification compliance, or other chemical and physical properties related thereto:
(i) Single Sample—$40.00.
(ii) Two or more samples analyzed at same time per sample—$35.00.
(2) Limited testing to determine kind, grade, or other factors related to quality of utility.
(i) Single Sample:
(A) Rosin—$14.00.
(B) Turpentine—$10.00.
(ii) Two or more samples tested at same time:
(A) Rosin—per sample—$10.00.
(B) Turpentine—per sample—$8.00.

# Note 3:
The analysis and testing of rosin involves many different types of laboratory procedures, requiring variable time for performance, and including other cost factors. The charge for such analysis and testing will depend on the type and extent of the work required to supply the information desired by the interested person requesting the service. When it appears that the charges indicated in this section will not defray the costs of making the tests required, the interested person shall be informed before any work is performed and will be supplied with a cost estimate of the actual charges to be made. See also § 160.204.
[47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.203
Fees for inspection and certification of other naval stores material.
Whenever it shall be deemed practical and in the interest of the naval stores trade to sample, inspect, analyze and certify any naval stores material other than spirits of turpentine or rosin, at the request of an interested person, the fees for such inspection shall be the same as the fees prescribed for spirits of turpentine.
[17 FR 189, Jan. 8, 1952]
§ 160.204
Fees for extra cost and hourly rate service.
The fees specified in §§ 160.201 and 160.202 apply to the routine field inspection and usual laboratory work incident to the certification of commodities covered by those sections. Should additional work be required to provide special information desired by the person requesting service, or should it be necessary for an inspector to make a special trip or to deviate from his regular schedule of travel, or should the fees prescribed in §§ 160.201 and 160.202 otherwise be insufficient to defray the cost to the Government for rendering such service, then the person requesting the service shall pay, in lieu of the prescribed fees, an amount computed by the Department as sufficient to defray the total cost thereof, including allowances for time spent in collecting and preparing samples obtaining identification records, traveling, performing laboratory tests or other necessary work, and also any expense incurred for authorized transportation and subsistence of the inspector or analyst while in travel status. The charge for time so spent shall be computed at the rate of $17.80 per hour for laboratory and field inspection work. The overtime rate for services performed outside the inspector's regularly scheduled tour of duty shall be $21.30. The rate of $26.70 shall be charged for work performed on Sundays or holidays.
[47 FR 3345, Jan. 25, 1982]
§ 160.205
Permit fees for eligible processing plants under licensed inspection.
Initial permit fee—$20.00.
Annual renewal permit fee—$20.00.

# Note:
The renewal permit fee shall be reduced to $10 per year when the inspection fees paid by the eligible processing plant aggregate $200 or more during the preceding fiscal year ended September 30, and shall be waived when such fees aggregate $400 or more during such fiscal year. Such reduced permit fee shall apply only in case the eligible processing plant has made use of the licensed inspection service.
[47 FR 3346, Jan. 25, 1982]

# SUBCHAPTER G—MISCELLANEOUS MARKETING PRACTICES UNDER THE AGRICULTURAL MARKETING ACT OF 1946
Pt. 170

# PART 170—USDA FARMERS MARKET
Sec.
170.1
To which farmers market does this rule apply?
170.2
Is the USDA Farmers Market a producer-only market?
170.3
What products may be sold at the USDA Farmers Market?
170.4
Who may participate in the USDA Farmers Market?
170.5
Is there a fee to participate in the USDA Farmers Market?
170.6
How are potential market participants identified for the USDA Farmers Market?
170.7
Can I apply if I am not recruited?
170.8
What are the application procedures?
170.9
What type of information does the application require?
170.10
Must a participant in the market have insurance?
170.11
How are farmers and vendors selected for participation in the USDA Farmers Market?
170.12
What are the selection criteria for participation in the USDA Farmers Market?
170.13
What are the operating guidelines for the USDA Farmers Market?
170.14
What circumstances will prevent participation in the USDA Farmers Market?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1621-1627.

# Source:
70 FR 76131, Dec. 23, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 170.1
To which farmers markets does this rule apply?
This rule applies only to the USDA Farmers Market at headquarters on the corner of 12th Street
Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC.
§ 170.2
Is the USDA Farmers Market a producer-only market?
Yes. A producer-only market is one that does not offer agricultural products that are commercially made, created, or produced, and only allows agricultural products that are grown by a principal farmer. A producer-only market offers raw agricultural products such as fruits, vegetables, flowers, bedding plants, and potted plants. The USDA Farmers Market is a producer-only market since only farmers who may sell products that they grow or produce will be selected for participation. It also allows the sale of value-added products and other specialized non-produce items.
§ 170.3
What products may be sold at the USDA Farmers Market?
Products that may be sold at the market include, but are not limited to, fresh, high-quality fruits, vegetables, herbs, honey, jams and jellies, cheese, vinegars, cider, maple syrup, fish, flowers, bedding plants, and potted plants. USDA inspected meats and poultry items also may be sold.
§ 170.4
Who may participate in the USDA Farmers Market?
Members of three groups may participate in the USDA Farmers Markets:
(a)
Principal farmers or producers who sell their own agricultural products.
The principal farmer must be in full control and supervision of the individual steps of production of crops including tilling, planting, cultivating, fertilizer and pesticide applications (if applicable), harvesting and post-harvest handling on its own farm with its own machinery and labor.
(b)
Principal farmer or producers who sell their own value-added agricultural products.
Value-added products may include agricultural products that have been enhanced through a modification of the product, such as braiding, weaving, hulling, extracting, handcrafting, and the like. It also may result from growing the product in a way that is acknowledged as safer. Farmers and vendors selling these types of products must prepare them predominately with material they have grown or gathered.
(c)
Nonproduce vendors.
A limited number of non-produce vendors may be selected by market management to sell specialized products that enhance the market atmosphere and historically attract customers to a farmers market. These specialized vendors, such as bakers, may be exempted from the reselling restrictions that apply to the farmers and vendors described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 170.5
Is there a fee to participate in the USDA Farmers Market?
No, there are no fees charged to participate in the market.
§ 170.6
How are potential market participants identified for the USDA Farmers Market?
Potential market participants are recruited by AMS market management through local farm organizations in the Washington DC metropolitan area State Departments of Agriculture from the mid-Atlantic region including, Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania. Upon receiving a list of potential farmers and vendors from the organizations and the State Departments of Agriculture, an information packet, which includes an application and this rule, will be mailed to each potential participant identified by the contacts.
§ 170.7
Can I apply if I am not recruited?
Yes. Interested persons may call or write USDA to request an information packet even if they are not recruited. Those interested may write USDA/AMS/TM/MSB, Room 2646-South Building, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, 20250, or call (202) 720-8317. They may also call the USDA Farmers Market Hotline at 1-800-384-8704 to leave a message to have a packet mailed or faxed. They may also visit the web site at
http://www.ams.usda.gov/farmersmarkets/
to review the selection criteria, the operating rules, and to receive an application electronically.
§ 170.8
What are the application procedures?
In January of each year, prospective and returning participants must submit to USDA a completed application for participation in the upcoming market season. Each application will include a copy of this rule, which includes the selection criteria and operating guidelines. Each applicant also will certify that each is the owner or representative of the farm or business submitting the application.
§ 170.9
What type of information does the application require?
The application for participation in the USDA Farmers Market will provide market management with information on contacts, farm location, type of farming operation, types of products grown, and business practices, including insurance coverage.
§ 170.10
Must a participant in the market have insurance?
There is no requirement for a participant to have insurance; however, USDA asks that participants with insurance provide insurance information for our records.
§ 170.11
How are farmers and vendors selected for participation in the USDA Farmers Market?
USDA reviews all applications and selects participants based primarily on the type of farmer or vendor (i.e., fruit, vegetable, herb, baker) and secondly, on the specific types of products to be sold. The selection of the participants is conducted by the market management to ensure a balanced product mix of fruits, vegetables, herbs, value-added products, and baked goods.
§ 170.12
What are the selection criteria for participation in the USDA Farmers Market?
The selection criteria are designed to ensure a consistently high level of quality and diverse products are available at the market, while operating in the constraints of space available at the market site. The criteria are:
(a)
Member of one of the three participant groups specified in § 170.4 of this part.
The participant must be a producer-only farmer or producer, seller of value-added products, or specialized non-produce vendor.
(b)
Participant offers a product that adds to a product mix.
Market management will ensure that a balanced mix of fresh fruits and vegetables will be maintained throughout the season. Final selection of fruit and vegetable producers will be made based on their ability to ensure a wide range of fresh farm products throughout the season.
(c)
Willingness to Glean.
Participants should commit to supporting the USDA food gleaning/food recovery initiative.
This commitment requires farmers and vendors to donate surplus food and food products at the end of each market day to a local nonprofit organization identified by USDA. Questions about tax deductions for gleaning should be referred to the Internal Revenue Service or a tax advisor. Receipts for donated foods may be obtained from the receiving nonprofit organization.
(d)
Commitment to market.
Participants must commit to the entire market season and be willing to participate on a regular basis.
(e)
Grandfather provision.
Market management reserves the right to select several farmers or vendors based on previous participation in the program, consistency in providing quality products, and compliance with operating guidelines.
§ 170.13
What are the operating guidelines for the USDA Farmers Market?
(a)
Market Operation.
The Market will be held in parking court #9 of the USDA Headquarters Complex located on the corner of 12th Street and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC. Selling will not begin before 10 a.m. and will end promptly at 2 p.m. each market day. All participants must be in place, setup and ready to sell by 10 a.m. Due to space restrictions at the site, late arrivals will be located at market management's discretion. All vehicles must vacate the market site no later than 3 p.m.
(b)
Notification of Attendance.
Each participant must call USDA within 48 hours of a market day if they cannot attend. Failure to provide proper and timely notification may result in termination of participation in the market.
(c)
Participant Space.
One vehicle is permitted per space; all other vehicles must be removed from the immediate market premises. One space is 16w × 17d feet, and all trucks must fit within that area. There is only room for 15 spaces.
(d)
Signage.
Participants must clearly display the name of their farm/business and post prices for all items being sold.
(e)
Clean-up.
Participants are responsible for cleaning all trash and waste within and around their allotted space. Garbage bins are provided on the market site for this purpose.
(f)
Cooperative Marketing.
Participants are permitted to share space with another participant or sell another's products if the arrangement is deemed by market management as beneficial to the market. A co-op must be pre-approved by market management and will not be accepted if similar products are already sold by existing farmers or vendors.
(g)
Farm/Business Visits.
Market management may visit farm/business locations to verify compliance with market criteria and guidelines. Participants should submit a map and directions to their farm/businesses with their market applications.
(h)
Conduct on Federal Property:
Participants must comply with Subpart 20.3 of the Federal Property Management Regulations, “Conduct on Federal Property,” 41 CFR 20.3.
§ 170.14
What circumstances will prevent participation in the USDA Farmers Market?
(a) Efforts will be made to accommodate all who apply to participate in the market. However, market management may deny participation in the market because of insufficient space or excess supply of the products to sell, failure to meet the stated criteria, or the participant's noncompliance with the operating guidelines or regulations.
(b) Participants who sell before the 10 a.m. opening time will be restricted from participating in the market following their second violation. A written warning will be given to the participant for the first violation of this guideline. After the second violation occurs, a letter of reprimand will be given to the participant restricting their participation for the next immediate market day.
(c) Participants who arrive after the 10 a.m. opening time may be restricted from participating in the market following their second violation. A written warning may be given to the participant for the first violation of this guideline. After the second violation occurs, a letter of reprimand may be given to the participant restricting their participation for the next immediate market day.
Pt. 180

# PART 180—CATTLE CONTRACTS LIBRARY PILOT PROGRAM
Sec.
180.1
General administration.
180.2
Definitions.
180.3
Cattle Contracts Library.
180.4
Monthly cattle volume reporting.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1621-1627

# Source:
87 FR 74955, Dec. 7, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 180.1
General administration.
(a)
Confidentiality.
The Secretary shall make information obtained under this part available to the public only in a manner that ensures that confidentiality is preserved regarding —
(1) The identity of persons, including parties to a contract; and
(2) Proprietary business information.
(b)
Disclosure by Federal Government employees
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, no officer, employee, or agent of the United States shall, without the consent of the packer or other person concerned, divulge or make known in any manner, any facts or information regarding the business of the packer or other person that was acquired through reporting required under this part.
(2)
Exceptions.
Information obtained by the Secretary under this part may be disclosed—
(i) To agents or employees of the Department of Agriculture in the course of their official duties under this part;
(ii) As directed by the Secretary or the Attorney General, for enforcement purposes; or
(iii) By a court of competent jurisdiction.
(3)
Disclosure under Freedom of Information Act.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no facts or information obtained under this part shall be disclosed in accordance with section 552 of title 5, United States Code.
(c)
Regional reporting.
The Secretary shall make information obtained under this part available to the public only in a manner that ensures that the information is published on a national or regional basis as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(d)
Adjustments.
Prior to the publication of any contract information obtained under this part, the Secretary may make reasonable adjustments to address aberrations or other unusual or unique occurrences that the Secretary determines would distort the published information to the detriment of producers, packers, or other market participants.
(e)
Reporting methods.
Information required to be reported under this part shall be reported by electronic means in the manner prescribed by the Secretary. Information may be reported in an alternative manner in emergencies or in cases when an alternative method is agreed to by both the entity required to report and the Secretary.
(f)
Verification.
The Secretary may take such actions as are necessary to verify the accuracy of the information submitted or reported under this part.
(g)
Noncompliance.
The Secretary may refer instances of non-compliance with this part to the appropriate office of the Department for further investigation.
§ 180.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part.
Active contract.
The term “active contract” means a contract that is currently available between a packer and producer under which fed cattle may be purchased.
Base price.
The term “base price” means the price paid for livestock, before application of any adjustments, premiums or discounts, expressed in dollars per hundred pounds of hot carcass weight or live weight.
Base price adjustment.
The term “base price adjustment” means the positive or negative adjustment to the base price before any premiums or discounts are applied.
Business day.
The term “business day” means a day on which the packer conducts normal business regarding livestock committed to the packer, or livestock purchased or sold by the packer, and the Department of Agriculture is open to conduct business, typically Monday through Friday and excluding Federal holidays.
Calendar month.
The term “calendar month” means a timeframe that begins on the first day of the month at midnight and ends on the last day of the
month at 11:59 p.m. in the central time zone.
Contract.
The term “contract” means a written or oral agreement concerning the specific terms and conditions under which an unknown volume of fed cattle may be purchased by a packer during a specified time frame, or under which a known volume of cattle is purchased by a packer for a given plant during a specified time frame.
Contract method.
The term “contract method” means the way in which the contract was established, either written or oral.
Current month.
The term “current month” means the present calendar month.
Discount.
The term “discount” means the adjustment, expressed either in dollars per one hundred pound or per head, subtracted from the base price.
Fed cattle.
The term “fed cattle” means a steer or heifer that has been finished on a ration of roughage and feed concentrates, such as grains, protein meal, grass (forage), and other nutrient-rich feeds, prior to slaughter.
Inactive contract.
The term “inactive contract” means a fed cattle contract that is no longer available between a packer and producer for purchase under, or one that is not currently in use.
Packer.
The term “packer” means a packer that has slaughtered during the immediately preceding 5 calendar years an average of not less than 5 percent of the number of fed cattle slaughtered nationally during the immediately preceding 5 calendar years.
Person.
The term “person” means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, or other entity.
Premium.
The term “premium” means the adjustment, expressed either in dollars per one hundred pound or per head, added to the base price.
Prior month.
The term “prior month” means the calendar month immediately preceding the current month.
Producer.
The term “producer” means any person engaged in the business of selling livestock to a packer for slaughter (including the sale of livestock from a packer to another packer).
Secretary.
The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
Selling basis.
The term “selling basis” refers to cattle that are sold on a live, dressed, live converted to dressed, or dressed converted to live weight basis under a contract.
Unique identifier.
The term “unique identifier” means a unique code chosen by the packer for the contract, specific to the contract, and utilized and trackable through the life of the contract.
§ 180.3
Cattle Contracts Library.
(a)
Initial contract information submission.
On January 6, 2023, each packer shall submit to the Secretary information for each active contract with a unique identifier. The information shall be submitted in accordance with § 180.1(e). The contract information required to be reported includes:
(1) The contract method;
(2) The contract start and end dates; and
(3) All terms associated with:
(i) Each base price source and adjustment;
(ii) Selling basis;
(iii) Premiums and discounts;
(iv) Specifications relating to cattle attributes;
(v) Delivery and transportation terms and payments;
(vi) Financing, risk-sharing, profit-sharing or other financial arrangements; and,
(vii) Volume provisions.
(b)
Reporting deadlines.
Within 1 business day of making a new contract available, making a change to an existing contract, or making a contract no longer available, each packer must submit the following:
(1) Packers must submit all contract terms in accordance § 108.4(a) for each new active contract for each producer or producers at each plant that it operates or at which it has cattle slaughtered;
(2) Packers must submit any changes to the terms of a previously submitted active contract and associated schedules or appendices, including the
unique identifier for the previously submitted contract it supersedes; and
(3) Packers must submit information to remove inactive contracts from the library, including the unique identifier for the now inactive contract.
§ 180.4
Monthly cattle volume reporting.
(a)
Initial estimated volume submission.
On January 6, 2023, each packer shall submit to the Secretary an initial estimate of the total volume of cattle to be contracted for in the current calendar month in accordance with § 180.1(e).
(b)
Reporting deadlines.
By the close of business on the second Friday of each month, each packer must submit the following information in accordance with § 180.1(e). If the second Friday of a month falls on a non-business day, the deadline is due no later than the close of the next business day following the second Friday of the month:
(1) Number of cattle purchased by each base price source under each active contract in the prior month reported by unique identifier and
(2) Estimate of the total number of cattle to be purchased under active contracts for delivery to each plant for slaughter within the current calendar month.
SUBCHAPTER H [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER K—FEDERAL SEED ACT
Pt. 201

# PART 201—FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS

# definitions
Sec.
201.1
Meaning of words.
201.2
Terms defined.

# administration
201.3
Administrator.

# records for agricultural and vegetable seeds
201.4
Maintenance and accessibility.
201.5
Origin.
201.6
Germination.
201.7
Purity (including variety).
201.7a
Treated seed.

# labeling agricultural seeds
201.8
Contents of the label.
201.9
Kind.
201.10
Variety.
201.11
Type.
201.11a
Hybrid.
201.12
Name of kind and variety.
201.12a
Seed mixtures.
201.13
Lot number or other identification.
201.14
Origin.
201.15
Weed seeds.
201.16
Noxious-weed seeds.
201.17
Noxious-weed seeds in the District of Columbia.
201.18
Other agricultural seeds.
201.19
Inert matter.
201.20
Germination.
201.21
Hard seed or dormant seed..
201.22
Date of test.
201.23
Seller and buyer information.
201.24
Code designation.
201.24a
Inoculated seed.

# labeling vegetable seeds
201.25
Contents of the label.
201.26
Kind, variety, and hybrid.
201.26a
Vegetable seed mixtures.
201.27
Seller and buyer information.
201.28
Code designation.
201.29
Germination of vegetable seed in containers of 1 pound or less.
201.29a
Germination of vegetable seed in containers of more than 1 pound.
201.30
Hard seed.
201.30a
Date of test.
201.30b
Lot number or other lot identification of vegetable seed in containers of more than 1 pound.
201.30c
Noxious-weed seeds of vegetable seed in containers of more than 1 pound.
201.31
Minimum germination standards for vegetable seeds in interstate commerce.

# labeling in general
201.31a
Labeling treated seed.
201.32
Screenings.
201.33
Seed in bulk or large quantities; seed for cleaning or processing.
201.34
Kind, variety, and type; treatment substances; designation as hybrid.
201.35
Blank spaces.
201.36
The words “free” and “none.”

# modifying statements
201.36a
Disclaimers and nonwarranties.

# advertising
201.36b
Name of kind and variety; designation as hybrid.
201.36c
Hermetically-sealed containers.

# inspection
201.37
Authorization.
201.38
[Reserved]

# sampling in the administration of the act
201.39
General procedure.
201.40
Bulk.
201.41
Bags.
201.42
Small containers.
201.43
Size of sample.
201.44
Forwarding samples.

# purity analysis in the administration of the act
201.45
Obtaining the working sample.
201.46
Weight of working sample.
201.47
Separation.
201.47a
Seed unit.
201.47b
Working samples.
201.48
Kind or variety considered pure seed.
201.49
Other crop seed.
201.50
Weed seed.
201.51
Inert matter.
201.51a
Special procedures for purity analysis.
201.51b
Purity procedures for coated seed.
201.52
Noxious-weed seeds.

# germination tests in the administration of the act
201.53
Source of seeds for germination.
201.54
Number of seeds for germination.
201.55
Retests.
201.55a
Moisture and aeration of substratum.
201.56
Interpretation.
201.56-1
Goosefoot family, Chenopodiaceae and Carpetweed family Aizoaceae.
201.56-2
Sunflower family, Asteraceae (Compositae).
201.56-3
Mustard family, Brassicaceae (Cruciferae).
201.56-4
Cucurbit family (Cucurbitaceae).
201.56-5
Grass family, Poaceae (Gramineae).
201.56-6
Legume or pea family, Fabaceae (Leguminosae).
201.56-7
Lily family, Liliaceae.
201.56-8
Flax family, Linaceae.
201.56-9
Mallow family, Malvaceae.
201.56-10
Spurge family, Euphorbiaceae.
201.56-11
Knotweed family, Polygonaceae.
201.56-12
Miscellaneous plant families.
201.57
Hard seeds.
201.57a
Dormant seeds.
201.58
Substrata, temperature, duration of test, and certain other specific directions for testing for germination and hard seed.

# examinations in the administration of the act
201.58a
Indistinguishable seeds.
201.58b
Origin.
201.58c
Detection of captan, mercury, or thiram on seed.
201.58d
Fungal endophyte test.

# tolerances
201.59
Application.
201.60
Purity percentages.
201.61
Fluorescence percentages in ryegrasses.
201.62
Tests for determination of percentages of kind, variety, type, hybrid, or offtype.
201.63
Germination.
201.64
Pure live seed.
201.65
Noxious-weed seeds in interstate commerce.
201.66
[Reserved]

# certified seed
201.67
Seed certifying agency standards and procedures.
201.68
Eligibility requirements for certification of varieties.
201.69
Classes of certified seed.
201.70
Limitations of generations for certified seed.
201.71
Establishing the source of all classes of certified seed.
201.72
Production of all classes of certified seed.
201.73
Processors and processing of all classes of certified seed.
201.74
Labeling of all classes of certified seed.
201.75
Interagency certification.
201.76
Minimum Land, Isolation, Field, and Seed Standards.

# Additional Requirements for the Certification of Plant Materials of Certain Crops
201.77
Length of stand requirements.
201.78
Pollen control for hybrids.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1592.

# Note:
Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 0581-0026 (47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982)

# Definitions
§ 201.1
Meaning of words.
Words in the regulations in this part in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand.
[5 FR 28, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.2
Terms defined.
When used in the regulations in this part the terms as defined in section 101 of the Act, unless modified in this section as provided in the Act, shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition, as used in this part:
(a) The
Act.
The term “Act” means the Federal Seed Act approved August 9, 1939 (53 Stat. 1275; 7 U.S.C. 1551-1611 as amended);
(b)
Person.
The term “person” includes an individual partnership, corporation, company, society, association, receiver, trustee, or agent;
(c)
Secretary.
The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead;
(d)
Hearing Clerk.
The term “Hearing Clerk” means the Hearing Clerk, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC;
(e)
Respondent.
The term “respondent” means a person against whom a complaint is issued;
(f)
Examiner.
The term “examiner” means an employee of the Department of Agriculture, designated by the Secretary to conduct hearings under the Act, and this part;
(g)
Federal Register.
The term “
Federal Register
” means the publication provided by the Act of July 26, 1935 (49 Stat. 500), and acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof;
(h)
Agricultural seeds.
The term “agricultural seeds” means the following kinds of grass, forage, and field crop seeds, that are used for seeding purposes in the United States:
Agrotricum— ×
Agrotriticum
Cif.
Giacom.
Alfalfa—
Medicago sativa
L. subsp.
sativa
Alfilaria—
Erodium cicutarium
(L.) L'Hér.
Alyceclover—
Alysicarpus vaginalis
(L.) DC.
Bahiagrass—
Paspalum notatum
Flüggé
Barley—
Hordeum vulgare
L. subsp.
vulgare
Barrelclover—
Medicago truncatula
Gaertn.
Bean, adzuki—
Vigna angularis
(Willd.) Ohwi
H. Ohashi var.
angularis
Bean, field—
Phaseolus vulgaris
L. var.
vulgaris
Bean, mung—
Vigna radiata
(L.) R. Wilczek var.
radiata
Beet, field—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
vulgaris
Beet, sugar—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
vulgaris
Beggarweed, Florida—
Desmodium tortuosum
(Sw.) DC.
Bentgrass, colonial—
Agrostis capillaris
L.
Bentgrass, creeping—
Agrostis stolonifera
L.
Bentgrass, velvet—
Agrostis canina
L.
Bermudagrass—
Cynodon dactylon
(L.) Pers. var.
dactylon
Bermudagrass, giant—
Cynodon dactylon
(L.) Pers. var.
aridus
J.R. Harlan
de Wet
Bluegrass, annual—
Poa annua
L.
Bluegrass, bulbous—
Poa bulbosa
L.
Bluegrass, Canada—
Poa compressa
L.
Bluegrass, glaucantha—
Poa glauca
Vahl
Bluegrass, Kentucky—
Poa pratensis
L.
Bluegrass, Nevada—
Poa secunda
J. Presl
Bluegrass, rough—
Poa trivialis
L.
Bluegrass, Texas—
Poa arachnifera
Torr.
Bluegrass, wood—
Poa nemoralis
L.
Bluejoint—
Calamagrostis canadensis
(Michx.) P. Beauv.
Bluestem, big—
Andropogon gerardi
Vitman
Bluestem, little—
Schizachyrium scoparium
(Michx.) Nash
Bluestem, sand—
Andropogon hallii
Hack.
Bluestem, yellow—
Bothriochloa ischaemum
(L.) Keng var.
ischaemum
Bottlebrush-squirreltail—
Elymus elymoides
(Raf.) Swezey
Brome, field—
Bromus arvensis
L.
Brome, meadow—
Bromus biebersteinii
Roem.
Schult.
Brome, mountain—
Bromus carinatus
var.
marginatus
(Steud.) Barworth
Anderton
Brome, smooth—
Bromus inermis
Leyss. subsp.
inermis
Broomcorn—
Sorghum bicolor
(L.) Moench
Buckwheat—
Fagopyrum esculentum
Moench
Buffalograss—
Bouteloua dactyloides
(Nutt.) Columbus
Buffelgrass—
Cenchrus ciliaris
L.
Burclover, California—
Medicago polymorpha
L.
Burclover, spotted—
Medicago arabica
(L.) Huds.
Burnet, little—
Sanguisorba minor
Scop.
Buttonclover—
Medicago orbicularis
(L.) Bartal.
Camelina—
Camelina sativa
(L.) Crantz subsp.
sativa
Canarygrass—
Phalaris canariensis
L.
Canarygrass, reed—
Phalaris arundinacea
L.
Carpetgrass—
Axonopus fissifolius
(Raddi) Kuhlm.
Castorbean—
Ricinus communis
L.
Chess, soft—
Bromus hordeaceus
L.
Chickpea—
Cicer arietinum
L.
Clover, alsike—
Trifolium hybridum
L.
Clover, arrowleaf—
Trifolium vesiculosum
Savi
Clover, berseem—
Trifolium alexandrinum
L.
Clover, cluster—
Trifolium glomeratum
L.
Clover, crimson—
Trifolium incarnatum
L.
Clover, Kenya—
Trifolium semipilosum
Fresen.
Clover, ladino—
Trifolium repens
L.
Clover, lappa—
Trifolium lappaceum
L.
Clover, large hop—
Trifolium campestre
Schreb.
Clover, Persian—
Trifolium resupinatum
L.
Clover, red or
Red clover, mammoth—
Trifolium pratense
L.
Red clover, medium—
Trifolium pratense
L.
Clover, rose—
Trifolium hirtum All.
Clover, small hop or suckling—
Trifolium dubium
Sibth.
Clover, strawberry—
Trifolium fragiferum
L.
Clover, sub or subterranean—
Trifolium subterraneum
L.
Clover, white—
Trifolium repens
L. (also see Clover, ladino)
Clover—(also see Alyceclover, Burclover, Buttonclover, Sourclover, Sweetclover)
Corn, field—
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mays
Corn, pop—
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mays
Cotton—
Gossypium spp.
Cowpea—
Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subsp. unguiculata
Crambe—
Crambe hispanica L. subsp. Abyssinica
Crested dogtail—
Cynosurus cristatus
L.
Crotalaria, lance—
Crotalaria lanceolata
E. Mey.
Crotalaria, showy—
Crotalaria spectabilis
Roth
Crotalaria, slenderleaf—
Crotalaria brevidens
Benth. var.
intermedia
(Kotschy) Polhill
Crotalaria, striped or smooth—
Crotalaria pallida
Aiton
Crotalaria, sunn or sunn hemp—
Crotalaria juncea
L.
Crownvetch—
Securigera varia
(L.) Lassen
Dallisgrass—
Paspalum dilatatum
Poir.
Dichondra—
Dichondra repens
J.R. Forst.
G. Forst.
Dropseed, sand—
Sporobolus cryptandrus
(Torr.) A. Gray
Emmer—
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
dicoccon
(Schrank) Thell.
Fescue, Chewing's—
Festuca rubra
L. subsp.
commutata
Gaudin
Fescue, hair—
Festuca filiformis
Pourr.
Fescue, hard—
Festuca trachyphylla
(Hack.) Krajina
Fescue, meadow—
Festuca pratensis
Huds.
Fescue, red—
Festuca rubra
L. subsp.
rubra
Fescue, sheep—
Festuca ovina
L.
Fescue, tall—
Festuca arundinacea
Schreb.
Flatpea—
Lathyrus sylvestris
L.
Flax—
Linum usitatissimum
L.
Foxtail, creeping—
Alopecurus arundinaceus
Poir.
Foxtail, meadow—
Alopecurus pratensis
L.
Galletagrass—
Pleuraphis jamesii
Torr.
Grama, blue—
Bouteloua gracilis
(Kunth) Griffiths
Grama, side-oats—
Bouteloua curtipendula
(Michx.) Torr.
Guar—
Cyamopsis tetragonoloba
(L.) Taub.
Guineagrass—
Megathyrsus maximus
(Jacq.) B. K. Simon
S. W. L. Jacobs
Hardinggrass—
Phalaris aquatica
L.”,
Hemp—
Cannabis sativa
L. subsp.
sativa
Indiangrass, yellow—
Sorghastrum nutans
(L.) Nash
Indigo, hairy—
Indigofera hirsuta
L.
Japanese lawngrass—
Zoysia japonica
Steud.
Johnsongrass—
Sorghum halepense
(L.) Pers.
Kenaf—
Hibiscus cannabinus
L.
Kochia, forage—
Bassia prostrata
(L.) A. J. Scott
Kudzu—
Pueraria montana
(Lour.) Merr. var.
lobata
(Willd.) Sanjappa
Predeep
Lentil—
Lens culinaris
Medik. subsp.
culinaris
Lespedeza, Korean—
Kummerowia stipulacea
(Maxim.) Makino
Lespedeza, sericea or Chinese—
Lespedeza cuneata
(Dum. Cours.) G. Don
Lespedeza, Siberian—
Lespedeza juncea
(L. f.) Pers.
Lespedeza, striate—
Kummerowia striata
(Thunb.) Schindl.
Lovegrass, sand—
Eragrostis trichodes
(Nutt.) Alph. Wood
Lovegrass, weeping—
Eragrostis curvula
(Schrad.) Nees
Lupine, blue—
Lupinus angustifolius
L.
Lupine, white—
Lupinus albus
L.
Lupine, yellow—
Lupinus luteus
L.
Manilagrass—
Zoysia matrella
(L.) Merr.
Medic, black—
Medicago lupulina
L.
Milkvetch or cicer milkvetch—
Astragalus cicer
L.
Millet, browntop—
Urochloa ramosa
(L.) T. Q. Nguyen
Millet, foxtail—
Setaria italica
(L.) P. Beauv. subsp.
italica
Millet, Japanese—
Echinochloa esculenta
(A. Braun) H. Scholz
Millet, pearl—
Cenchrus americanus
(L.) Morrone
Millet, proso—
Panicum miliaceum
L. subsp.
miliaceum
Molassesgrass—
Melinis minutiflora
P. Beauv.
Mustard, black—
Brassica nigra
(L.) W.D.J. Koch
Mustard, India—
Brassica juncea
(L.) Czern. var.
juncea
Mustard, white—
Sinapis alba
L. subsp.
alba
Napiergrass—
Cenchrus purpureus
(Schumach.) Morrone
Needlegrass, green—
Nassella viridula
(Trin.) Barkworth
Oat—
Avena byzantina
K. Koch,
A. sativa
L.,
A. nuda
L.
Oatgrass, tall—
Arrhenatherum elatius
(L.) J. Presl
C. Presl subsp.
elatius
Orchardgrass—
Dactylis glomerata
L.
Panicgrass, blue—
Panicum antidotale
Retz.
Panicgrass, green—
Megathyrsus maximus
(Jacq.) B. K. Simon
W. L. Jacobs
Pea, field—
Pisum sativum
L. var.
arvense
(L.) Poir.
Peanut—
Arachis hypogaea
L.
Poa trivialis—(see Bluegrass, rough)
Radish—
Raphanus sativus
L.
Rape, annual—
Brassica napus
L. var.
napus
Rape, bird—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
oleifera
Rape, turnip—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
oleifera
Rape, winter—
Brassica napus
L. var.
napus
Redtop—
Agrostis gigantea
Roth
Rescuegrass—
Bromus catharticus
Vahl var.
catharticus
Rhodesgrass—
Chloris gayana
Kunth
Rice—
Oryza sativa
L.
Ricegrass, Indian—
Achnatherum hymenoides
(Roem.
Schult.) Barkworth
Roughpea—
Lathyrus hirsutus
L.
Rye—
Secale cereale
L. subsp.
cereale
Rye, mountain—
Secale strictum
(C. Presl) C. Presl subsp.
strictum
Ryegrass, annual or Italian—
Lolium multiflorum
Lam.
Ryegrass, intermediate—
Lolium
×
hybridum
Hausskn.
Ryegrass, perennial—
Lolium perenne
L.
Ryegrass, Wimmera—
Lolium rigidum
Gaudin
Safflower—
Carthamus tinctorius
L.
Sagewort, Louisiana—
Artemisia ludoviciana
Nutt.
Sainfoin—
Onobrychis viciifolia
Scop.
Saltbush, fourwing—
Atriplex canescens
(Pursh) Nutt.
Sesame—
Sesamum indicum
L.
Sesbania—
Sesbania exaltata
(Raf.) A.W. Hill
Smilo—
Oloptum miliaceum
(L.) Röser
Hamasha
Sorghum—
Sorghum bicolor
(L.) Moench
Sorghum almum—
Sorghum
×
almum
L. Parodi
Sorghum-sudangrass—
Sorghum
×
drummondii
(Steud.) Millsp.
Chase
Sorgrass—Rhizomatous derivatives of a johnsongrass × sorghum cross or a johnsongrass × sudangrass cross
Southernpea—(See Cowpea)
Sourclover—
Melilotus indicus
(L.) All.
Soybean—
Glycine max
(L.) Merr.
Spelt—
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
spelta
(L.) Thell.
Sudangrass—
Sorghum
×
drummondii
(Steud.) Millsp.
Chase
Sunflower—
Helianthus annuus
L.
Sweetclover, white—
Melilotus albus
Medik.
Sweetclover, yellow—
Melilotus officinalis
Lam.
Sweet vernalgrass—
Anthoxanthum odoratum
L.
Sweetvetch, northern—
Hedysarum boreale
Nutt.
Switchgrass—
Panicum virgatum
L.
Teff—
Eragrostis tef
(Zuccagni) Trotter
Timothy—
Phleum pratense
L.
Timothy, turf—
Phleum nodosum
L.
Tobacco—
Nicotiana tabacum
L.
Trefoil, big—
Lotus uliginosus
Schkuhr
Trefoil, birdsfoot—
Lotus corniculatus
L.
Triticale— ×
Triticosecale
A. Camus (
Secale
×
Triticum
)
Vaseygrass—
Paspalum urvillei
Steud.
Veldtgrass—
Ehrharta calycina
Sm.
Velvetbean—
Mucuna pruriens
(L.) DC. var.
utilis
(Wight) Burck
Velvetgrass—
Holcus lanatus
L.
Vetch, common—
Vicia sativa
L. subsp.
sativa
Vetch, hairy—
Vicia villosa
Roth subsp.
villosa
Vetch, Hungarian—
Vicia pannonica
Crantz
Vetch, monantha—
Vicia articulata
Hornem.
Vetch, narrowleaf or blackpod—
Vicia sativa
L. subsp.
nigra
(L.) Ehrh.
Vetch, purple—
Vicia benghalensis
L.
Vetch, woollypod or winter—
Vicia villosa
Roth subsp.
varia
(Host) Corb.
Wheat, common—
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
aestivum
Wheat, club—
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
compactum
(Host) Mackey
Wheat, durum—
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
durum
(Desf.) Husn.
Wheat, Polish—
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
polonicum
(L.) Thell.
Wheat, poulard—
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
turgidum
Wheat × Agrotricum—
Triticum
×
Agrotriticum
Wheatgrass, beardless—
Pseudoroegneria spicata
(Pursh) á. Löve
Wheatgrass, crested or fairway crested—
Agropyron cristatum
(L.) Gaertn.
Wheatgrass, crested or standard crested—
Agropyron desertorum
(Link) Schult.
Wheatgrass, intermediate—
Thinopyrum intermedium
(Host) Barkworth
D.R. Dewey subsp.
intermedium
Wheatgrass, pubescent—
Thinopyrum intermedium
(Host) Barkworth
D.R. Dewey subsp.
barbulatum
(Schur) Barkworth
D.R. Dewey
Wheatgrass, Siberian—
Agropyron fragile
(Roth) P. Candargy
Wheatgrass, slender—
Elymus trachycaulus
(Link) Shinners subsp.
trachycaulus
Wheatgrass, streambank—
Elymus lanceolatus
(Scribn.
J.G. Sm.) Gould subsp.
riparius
(Scribn.
J.G. Sm.) Barkworth
Wheatgrass, tall—
Thinopyrum elongatum
(Host) D.R. Dewey
Wheatgrass, western—
Pascopyrum smithii
(Rydb.) Barkworth
D.R. Dewey
Wildrye, basin—
Leymus cinereus
(Scribn.
Merr.) á. Löve
Wildrye, Canada—
Elymus canadensis
L.
Wildrye, Russian—
Psathyrostachys juncea
(Fisch.) Nevski
Zoysia japonica—(see Japanese
lawngrass)
Zoysia matrella—(see Manilagrass)
(i)
Vegetable seeds.
The term “vegetable seeds” means the seeds of the following kinds that are or may be grown in gardens or on truck farms and are or may be generally known and sold under the name of vegetable seeds:
Artichoke—
Cynara cardunculus
L.
Asparagus—
Asparagus officinalis
L.
Asparagusbean or yard-long bean—
Vigna unguiculata
(L.)
Walp. subsp.
sesquipedalis
(L.) Verdc.
Bean, garden—
Phaseolus vulgaris
L. var.
vulgaris
Bean, Lima—
Phaseolus lunatus
L.
Bean, runner or scarlet runner—
Phaseolus coccineus
L.
Beet—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
vulgaris
Broadbean—
Vicia faba
L. var.
faba
Broccoli—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
italica
Plenck
Brussels sprouts—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
gemmifera
Zenker
Burdock, great—
Arctium lappa
L.
Cabbage—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
capitata
L.
Cabbage, Chinese—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
pekinensis
(Lour.) Hanelt
Cabbage, tronchuda—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
costata
DC.
Cantaloupe—(see Melon)
Cardoon—
Cynara cardunculus
L.
Carrot—
Daucus carota
L. subsp.
sativus
(Hoffm.) Arcang.
Cauliflower—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
botrytis
L.
Celeriac—
Apium graveolens
L. var.
rapaceum
(Mill.) Gaudin
Celery—
Apium graveolens
L. var.
dulce
(Mill.) Pers.
Chard, Swiss—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
vulgaris
Chicory—
Cichorium intybus
L.
Chives—
Allium schoenoprasum
L.
Citron melon—
Citrullus lanatus
(Thunb.) Matsum.
Nakai var.
citroides
(L.H. Bailey) Mansf.
Collards—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
viridis
L.
Corn, sweet—
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mays
Cornsalad—
Valerianella locusta
(L.) Laterr.
Cowpea—
Vigna unguiculata
(L.) Walp. subsp.
unguiculata
Cress, garden—
Lepidium sativum
L.
Cress, upland—
Barbarea verna
(Mill.) Asch.
Cress, water—
Nasturtium officinale
R. Br.
Cucumber—
Cucumis sativus
L.
Dandelion—
Taraxacum officinale
F.H. Wigg.
Dill—
Anethum graveolens
L.
Eggplant—
Solanum melongena
L.
Endive—
Cichorium endivia
L. subsp.
endivia
Favabean (see Broadbean)
Gherkin, West India—
Cucumis anguria
L. var.
anguria
Kale—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
viridis
L.
Kale, Chinese—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
alboglabra
(L.H. Bailey) Musil
Kale, Siberian—
Brassica napus
L. var.
pabularia
(DC.) Rchb.
Kohlrabi—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
gongylodes
L.
Leek—
Allium porrum
L.
Lettuce—
Lactuca sativa
L.
Melon—
Cucumis melo
L. subsp.
melo
Muskmelon—(see Melon).
Mustard, India—
Brassica juncea
(L.) Czern.
Mustard, spinach—
Brassica rapa
var.
perviridis
L.H. Bailey
Okra—
Abelmoschus esculentus
(L.) Moench
Onion—
Allium cepa
L. var.
cepa
Onion, bunching (see Onion, Welsh)
Onion, Welsh—
Allium fistulosum
L.
Pak-choi—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
chinensis
(L.) Hanelt
Parsley—
Petroselinum crispum
(Mill.) A.W. Hill
Parsnip—
Pastinaca sativa
L. subsp.
sativa
Pea—
Pisum sativum
L. subsp.
sativum
Pepper—
Capsicum
spp.
Pe-tsai—(see Chinese cabbage).
Pumpkin—
Cucurbita pepo
L.,
C. moschata
Duchesne, and
C. maxima
Duchesne
Radicchio (see Chicory)
Radish—
Raphanus sativus
L.
Rhubarb—
Rheum × hybridum
Murray
Rutabaga—
Brassica napus
L. var.
napobrassica
(L.) Rchb.
Sage—
Salvia officinalis
L.
Salsify—
Tragopogon porrifolius
L.
Savory, summer—
Satureja hortensis
L.
Sorrel—
Rumex acetosa
L.
Southernpea—(see Cowpea)
Soybean—
Glycine max
(L.) Merr.
Spinach—
Spinacia oleracea
L.
Spinach, New Zealand—
Tetragonia tetragonoides
(Pall.) Kuntze
Squash—
Cucurbita pepo
L.,
C. moschata
Duchesne, and
C. maxima
Duchesne
Tomato—
Solanum lycopersicum
L.
Tomato, husk—
Physalis pubescens
L.
Turnip—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
rapa
Watermelon—
Citrullus lanatus
(Thunb.) Matsum.
Nakai var.
lanatus
(j)
Regulations.
The term “regulations” means the rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture and the joint rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act.
(k)
Joint regulations.
The term “joint regulations” means the joint rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture.
(l)
Complete record.
(1) The term “complete record” means information which relates to the origin, treatment (including but not limited to coating, film coating, encrusting, or pelleting), germination, and purity (including variety) of each lot of agricultural seed transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce, or which relates to the treatment (including but not limited to coating, film coating, encrusting, or pelleting), germination, and variety of each lot of vegetable seed transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce. Such information includes seed samples and records of declarations, labels, purchases, sales, cleaning, bulking, chemical or biological treatment, handling, storage, analyses, tests, and examinations.
(2) The complete record kept by each person for each treatment substance or lot of seed consists of the information pertaining to his own transactions and the information received from others pertaining to their transactions with respect to each treatment substance or lot of seed.
(m)
Declaration.
The term “declaration” means a written statement of a grower, shipper, processor, dealer, or importer giving for any lot of seed the kind, variety, type, origin, or the use for which the seed is intended.
(n)
Declaration of origin.
The term “declaration of origin” means a declaration of a grower or country shipper in the United States stating for each lot of agricultural seed (1) kind of seed, (2) lot number or other identification, (3) State where seed was grown and the county where grown if to be labeled showing the origin as a portion of a State, (4) quantity of seed, (5) date shipped or delivered, (6) to whom sold, shipped, or delivered, and (7) the signature and address of the grower or country shipper issuing the declaration. If the declaration is issued by a grower and the identity of the person delivering the seed is unknown to the receiver, the motor vehicle license number or other identification of the delivering agency should be entered on the declaration by the receiver. If a country shipper's declaration includes seed shipped or delivered to him by another country shipper, it shall give for each lot the other country shipper's lot number as included in the other country shipper's declaration of origin.
(o)
Declaration of kind, variety, or type.
The term “declaration of kind, variety, or type” means a declaration of a grower stating for each lot of seed (1) the name of the kind, variety, or type stated in accordance with §§ 201.9 through 201.12, (2) lot number or other identification, (3) place where seed was grown, (4) quantity of seed, (5) date shipped or delivered, (6) to whom sold,
shipped or delivered, and (7) the signature and address of the grower issuing the declaration.
(p)
Mixture.
The term “mixture” means seeds consisting of more than one kind or variety, each present in excess of 5 percent by weight of the whole. A mixture of varieties of a single kind may be labeled as a blend.
(q)
Coated seed.
The term “coated seed” means any seed unit covered with a coating material.
(r)
Grower.
The term “grower” means any person who produces directly or through a growing contract, or is a seed-crop sharer in seed which is sold, offered for sale, transported, or offered for transportation.
(s)
Country shipper.
The term “country shipper” means any person located in a producing area who purchases seed locally for shipment to seed dealers or to other country shippers.
(t)
Dealer.
The term “dealer” means any person who cleans, processes, sells, offers for sale, transports, or delivers for transportation seeds in interstate commerce.
(u)
Consumer.
The term “consumer” means any person who purchases or otherwise obtains seed for sowing but not for resale.
(v)
Lot of seed.
The term “lot of seed” means a definite quantity of seed identified by a lot number, every portion or bag of which is uniform, within permitted tolerances, for the factors which appear in the labeling.
(w)
Purity.
The term “purity” means the name or names of the kind, type, or variety and the percentage or percentages thereof; the percentage of other agricultural seed; the percentage of weed seeds, including noxious-weeds seeds; the percentage of inert matter; and the names of the noxious-weed seeds and the rate of occurrence of each.
(x)
Inoculant.
The term “inoculant” means a product consisting of microorganisms applied to the seed for the purpose of enhancing the availability or uptake of plant nutrients through the root system.
(y)
Hybrid.
The term “hybrid” applied to kinds or varieties of seed means the first generation seed of a cross produced by controlling the pollination and by combining (1) two or more inbred lines; (2) one inbred or a single cross with an open pollinated variety; or (3) two selected clones, seed lines, varieties, or species. “Controlling the pollination” means to use a method of hybridization which will produce pure seed which is at least 75 percent hybrid seed. Hybrid designations shall be treated as variety names.
(z)
Conditioning.
For the purpose of section 203 (b)(2)(C) of the Act the term “conditioning” means cleaning, scarifying, or blending to obtain uniform quality, and other operations which would change the purity or germination of the seed and therefore require retesting to determine the quality of the seed, but does not include operations such as packaging, labeling, blending together of uniform lots of the same kind or variety without cleaning, or the preparation of a mixture without cleaning, any of which would not require retesting to determine the quality of the seed.
(aa)
Agricultural Marketing Service
means the Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
(bb)
Breeder seed.
Breeder seed is a class of certified seed directly controlled by the originating or sponsoring plant breeding institution, or person, or designee thereof, and is the source for the production of seed of the other classes of certified seed.
(cc)
Foundation seed.
Foundation seed is a class of certified seed which is the progeny of Breeder or Foundation seed and is produced and handled under procedures established by the certifying agency, in accordance with this part, for producing the Foundation class of seed, for the purpose of maintaining genetic purity and identity.
(dd)
Registered seed.
Registered seed is a class of certified seed which is the progeny of Breeder or Foundation seed and is produced and handled under procedures established by the certifying agency, in accordance with this part, for producing the Registered class of seed, for the purpose of maintaining genetic purity and identity.
(ee)
Certified seed.
Certified seed is a class of certified seed which is the progeny of Breeder, Foundation, or Registered seed, except as provided in § 201.70, and is produced and handled
under procedures established by the certifying agency, in accordance with this part, for producing the Certified class of seed, for the purpose of maintaining genetic purity and identity.
(ff)
Off-type.
The term “off-type” means a plant or seed which deviates in one or more characteristics from that which has been described in accordance with § 201.68(c) as being usual for the strain or variety.
(gg)
Inbred line.
The term “inbred line” means a relatively true-breeding strain resulting from at least five successive generations of controlled self-fertilization or of backcrossing to a recurrent parent with selection, or its equivalent, for specific characteristics.
(hh)
Single cross.
The term “single cross” means the first generation hybrid between two inbred lines.
(ii)
Foundation single cross.
The term “foundation single cross” means a single cross used in the production of a double cross, a three-way, or a top cross.
(jj)
Double cross.
The term “double cross” means the first generation hybrid between two single crosses.
(kk)
Top cross.
The term “top cross” means the first generation hybrid of a cross between an inbred line and an open-pollinated variety or the first-generation hybrid between a single cross and an open-pollinated variety.
(ll)
Three-way cross.
The term “three-way cross” means a first generation hybrid between a single cross and an inbred line.
(mm)
Open-pollination.
The term “open-pollination” means pollination that occurs naturally as opposed to controlled pollination, such as by detasseling, cytoplasmic male sterility, self-incompatibility or similar processes.
(nn)
Coating material.
The term “coating material” means any substance that changes the size, shape, or weight of the original seed. Ingredients such as rhizobia, dyes, polymers, biologicals, and pesticides are not coating material for purposes of this part.
(oo)
Brand.
The term “brand” means a name, term, sign, symbol, or design, or a combination of them that identifies the seed of one seller or group of sellers and differentiates that seed from the seed of other sellers.
[5 FR 28, Jan. 4, 1940]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 201.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# administration
§ 201.3
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service may perform such duties as the Secretary requires in enforcing the provisions of the Act and of the regulations in this part.
[85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]

# records for agricultural and vegetable seeds
§ 201.4
Maintenance and accessibility.
(a) Each person transporting or delivering for transportation in interstate commerce agricultural or vegetable seed subject to the Act shall keep for a period of 3 years a complete record of each lot of such seed so transported or delivered, including a sample representing each lot of such seed, except that any seed sample may be discarded 1 year after the entire lot represented by such sample has been disposed of by such person.
(b) Each sample of agricultural seed retained shall be at least the weight required for a noxious-weed seed examination as set forth in § 201.46 and each sample of vegetable seed retained shall consist of at least 400 seeds. The record shall be kept in such manner as to permit comparison with the records required to be kept by other persons for the same lot of seed so that the origin, treatment (including, but not limited to, coating, film coating, encrusting, or pelleting), germination, and purity (including variety) of agricultural seed and the treatment (including, but not limited to, coating, film coating, encrusting, or pelleting), germination and variety of vegetable seed may be traced from the grower to the ultimate consumer and so that the lot of seed may be correctly labeled. The record shall be accessible for inspection by the authorized agents of the Secretary
for purposes of the effective administration of the Act at any time during customary business hours.
[24 FR 3951, May 15, 1959, as amended at 32 FR 12778, Sept. 6, 1967; 85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.5
Origin.
(a) The complete record for any lot of seed of alfalfa, red clover, white clover, or field corn, except hybrid seed corn, shall include a declaration of origin, or information traceable to a declaration of origin or evidence showing that a declaration of origin could not be obtained.
(b) Each country shipper shall retain a copy of each declaration which he issues and shall attach thereto a detailed record showing the names and addresses of growers or country shippers from whom the seed was purchased, the quantity of seed purchased from each, and the date on which it was delivered to him.
[5 FR 30, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 20 FR 7929, Oct. 21, 1955]
§ 201.6
Germination.
The complete record shall include the records of all laboratory tests for germination and hard seed for each lot of seed offered for transportation in whole or in part. The record shall show the kind of seed, lot number, date of test, percentage of germination and hard seeds, and such other information as may be necessary to show the method used.
[5 FR 30, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.7
Purity (including variety).
The complete record for any lot of seed shall include (a) records of tests, including statements of weed seeds, noxious weed seeds, inert matter, other agricultural seeds, and of any determinations of kind, variety, or type and a description of the methods used; and (b) for seeds indistinguishable by seed characteristics, records necessary to disclose the kind, variety, or type, including a grower's declaration of kind, variety, or type or an invoice, or other document establishing the kind, variety, or type to be that stated, and a representative sample of the seed. The grower's declaration shall be obtained and kept by the person procuring the seed from the grower. A copy of the grower's declaration and a sample of the seed shall be retained by the grower.
[5 FR 30, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 20 FR 7929, Oct. 21, 1955; 24 FR 3951, May 15, 1959; 85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.7a
Treated seed.
The complete record for any lot consisting of or containing treated seed shall include records necessary to disclose the name of any substance or substances used in the treatment of such seed, including a label or invoice or other document received from any person establishing the name of any substance or substances used in the treatment to be as stated, and a representative sample of the treated seed.
[32 FR 12778, Sept. 6, 1967]

# labeling agricultural seeds
§ 201.8
Contents of the label.
The label shall contain the required information in any form that is clearly legible and complies with the regulations in this part. The information may be on a tag attached securely to the container, or may be printed in a conspicuous manner on a side or the top of the container. The label may contain information in addition to that required by the Act, provided such information is not misleading.
[5 FR 30 Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 24 FR 3952, May 15, 1959; 85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.9
Kind.
The name of each kind of seed present in excess of 5 percent shall be shown on the label and need not be accompanied by the word “kind.” When two or more kinds of seed are named on the label, the name of each kind shall be accompanied by the percentage of each. When only one kind of seed is present in excess of 5 percent and no variety name or type designation is shown, the percentage of that kind may be shown as “pure seed” and such percentage shall apply only to seed of the kind named.
[5 FR 30, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.10
Variety.
(a) The following kinds of agricultural seeds are generally labeled as to variety and shall be labeled to show the variety name or the words “Variety Not Stated.”
Alfalfa; Bahiagrass; Barley; Bean, field; Beet, field; Brome, smooth; Broomcorn; Clover, crimson; Clover, red; Clover, white; Corn, field; Corn, pop; Cotton; Cowpea; Crambe; Fescue, tall; Flax; Lespedeza, striate; Millet, foxtail; Millet, pearl; Oat; Pea, field; Peanut; Radish; Rice; Rye; Safflower; Sorghum; Sorghum-sudangrass, Soybean; Sudangrass; Sunflower; Tobacco; Trefoil, birdsfoot; Triticale; Wheat, common; Wheat, durum.
(b) If the name of the variety is given, the name may be associated with the name of the kind with or without the words “kind and variety.” The percentage in such case, which may be shown as “pure seed,” shall apply only to seed of the variety named, except for the labeling of hybrids as provided in § 201.11a. If separate percentages for the kind and the variety or hybrid are shown, the name of the kind and the name of the variety or the term “hybrid” shall be clearly associated with the respective percentages. When two or more varieties are present in excess of 5 percent and are named on the label, the name of each variety shall be accompanied by the percentage of each.
[32 FR 12778, Sept. 6, 1967, and 33 FR 10840, July 31, 1968, as amended at 35 FR 6108, Apr. 15, 1970; 59 FR 64491, Dec. 14, 1994; 85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.11
Type.
(a) When type is designated, such designation may be associated with the name of the kind but shall in all cases be clearly associated with the word “type.” The percentage, which may be shown as “pure seed”, shall apply only to the type designated. If separate percentages for the kind and the type are shown, such percentages shall be clearly associated with the name of the kind and the name of the type.
(b) If the type designation does not include a variety name, it shall include a name descriptive of a group of varieties of similar character and the pure seed shall be at least 90 percent of one or more varieties all of which conform to the type designation.
(c) If the name of a variety is used as a part of the type designation, the seed shall be of that variety and may contain: (1) An admixture of seed of other indistinguishable varieties of the same kind and of similar character; or, (2) an admixture of indistinguishable seeds having genetic characteristics dissimilar to the variety named by reason of cross-fertilization with other varieties. In either case, at least 90 percent of the pure seed shall be of the variety named or upon growth shall produce plants having characteristics similar to the variety named.
[5 FR 30, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.11a
Hybrid.
If any one kind or kind and variety of seed present in excess of 5 percent is “hybrid” seed, it shall be designated “hybrid” on the label. The percentage that is hybrid shall be at least 95 percent of the percentage of pure seed shown unless the percentage of pure seed which is hybrid seed is shown separately. If two or more kinds or varieties are present in excess of 5 percent and are named on the label, each that is hybrid shall be designated as hybrid on the label. Any one kind or kind and variety that has pure seed which is less than 95 percent but more than 75 percent hybrid seed as a result of incompletely controlled pollination in a cross shall be labeled to show (a) the percentage of pure seed that is hybrid seed or (b) a statement such as “Contains from 75 percent to 95 percent hybrid seed.” No one kind or variety of seed shall be labeled as hybrid if the pure seed contains less than 75 percent hybrid seed.
[33 FR 10840, July 31, 1968]
§ 201.12
Name of kind and variety.
The representation of kind or kind and variety shall be confined to the name of the kind or kind and variety determined in accordance with § 201.34. The name shall not have affixed thereto words or terms that create a misleading impression as to the history or characteristics of the kind or variety.
[20 FR 7929, Oct. 21, 1955]
§ 201.12a
Seed mixtures.
Seed mixtures intended for seeding/planting purposes shall be designated as a mixture on the label and each seed component shall be listed on the label in the order of predominance.
[85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.13
Lot number or other identification.
The lot number or other identification shall be shown on the label and shall be the same as that used in the records pertaining to the same lot of seed.
[5 FR 30, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 59 FR 64491, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.14
Origin.
(a) Alfalfa, red clover, white clover, and field corn (except hybrid seed corn) shall be labeled to show: (1) The origin, if known; or (2) if the origin is not known, the statement “origin unknown.”
(b) Whenever such seed originates in more than one State, the name of each State and the percentage of seed originating in each State shall be given in the order of its predominance. Whenever such seed originates in a portion of a State, it shall be permissible to label such seed as originating in such portion of a State.
(c) Reasonable precautions to insure that the origin of seed is known shall include the maintaining of a record as described in § 201.5. The examination of the seed and any pertinent facts may be taken into consideration in determining whether reasonable precautions have been taken to insure the origin to be that which is represented.
[5 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 20 FR 7929, Oct. 21, 1955; 32 FR 12779, Sept. 6, 1967]
§ 201.15
Weed seeds.
The percentage of weed seeds shall include seeds of plants considered weeds in the State into which the seed is offered for transportation or transported and shall include noxious weed seeds.
[5 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.16
Noxious-weed seeds.
(a) Except for those kinds of noxious-weed seeds shown in paragraph (b) of this section, the names of the kinds of noxious-weed seeds and the rate of occurrence of each shall be expressed in the label in accordance with, and the rate of occurrence shall not exceed the rate permitted by, the law and regulations of the State into which the seed is offered for transportation or is transported. If in the course of such transportation, or thereafter, the seed is diverted to another State of destination, the person or persons responsible for such diversion shall cause the seed to be relabeled with respect to the noxious-weed seed content, if necessary to conform to the laws and regulations of the State into which the seed is diverted.
(b) Seeds or bulblets of the following plants shall be considered noxious-weed seeds in agricultural and vegetable seeds transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce (including Puerto Rico, Guam, and the District of Columbia). Agricultural or vegetable seed containing seeds or bulblets of these kinds shall not be transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce. Noxious-weed seeds include the following species on which no tolerance will be applied:
Aeginetia
spp.
Ageratina adenophora
(Spreng.) King and H.E. Robins.
Alectra
spp.
Alternanthera sessilis
(L.) DC.
Asphodelus fistulosus
L.
Avena sterilis
L. (including
Avena ludoviciana
Dur.)
Azolla pinnata
R. Br.
Carthamus oxyacantha
M. Bieb
Cenchrus caudatus
(Schrad.) Kuntze
Cenchrus clandestinus
Morrone
Cenchrus pedicellatus
(Trin.) Morrone
Cenchrus polystachios
(L.) Morrone
Chrysopogon aciculatus
(Retz.) Trin.
Commelina benghalensis
L.
Crupina vulgaris
Cass.
Digitaria abyssinica Stapf.
(=
D. scalarum
(Schweinf.) Chiov.)
Digitaria scalarum
(Schweinfurth) Chiovenda
Dinebra chinensis
(L.) P. M. Peterson
N. Snow
Drymaria arenarioides
Roem. and Schult.
Eichornia azurea
(Sw.) Kunth
Galega officinalis
L.
Heracleum mantegazzianum
Sommier
Levier
Homeria
spp.
Hydrilla verticillata
(L. f.) Royle
Hygrophila polysperma
T. Anders.
Imperata brasiliensis
Trin.
Imperata cylindrica
(L.) Raeusch.
Ipomoea aquatica
Forsk.
Ischaemum rugosum
Salisb.
Lagarosiphon major
(Ridley) Moss
Limnophila sessiliflora
(Vahl) Blume
Lycium ferocissimum
Miers
Melaleuca quinquenervia
(Cav.) Blake
Melastoma malabathricum
L.
Mikania cordata
(Burm. f.) B.L. Robins.
Mikania micrantha
H.B.K.
Mimosa invisa
Mart.
Mimosa pigra
L. var.
pigra
Monochoria hastata
(L.) Sloms-Laub.
Monochoria vaginalis
(Burm. f.) K.B. Presl
Nassella trichotoma
(Nees) Arechavaleta
Opuntia aurantiaca
Lindl.
Oryza longistaminata
A. Cheval. and Roehr.
Oryza punctata
Steud.
Oryza rufipogon
Griff.
Ottelia alismoides
(L.) Pers.
Paspalum scrobiculatum
L.
Prosopis alapataco
R.A. Philippi
Prosopis argentina
Burkart
Prosopis articulata
S. Watson
Prosopis burkartii
Munoz
Prosopis caldenia
Burkart
Prosopis calingastana
Burkart
Prosopis campestris
Griseb.
Prosopis castellanosii
Burkart
Prosopis denudans
Benth.
Prosopis elata
(Burkart) Burkart
Prosopis farcta
(Russell) Macbride
Prosopis ferox
Griseb.
Prosopis fiebrigii
Harms
Prosopis hassleri
Harms
Prosopis humilis
Hook. and Arn.
Prosopis kuntzei
Harms
Prosopis pallida
(Willd.) H.B.K.
Prosopis palmeri
S. Watson
Prosopis reptans
Benth. var.
reptans
Prosopis rojasiana
Burkart
Prosopis ruizlealii
Burkart
Prosopis ruscifolia
Griseb.
Prosopis sericantha
Hook. and Arn.
Prosopis strombulifera
(Lam.) Benth.
Prosopis torquata
(Lagasca) DC.
Rottboellia cochinchinensis
(Lour.) Clayton
Rubus moluccanus
L.
Rubus plicatus
Weihe
Nees
Rumex hypogaeus
T.M. Schust
Reveal
Rumex spinosus
L.
Saccharum spontaneum
L.
Sagittaria sagittifolia
L.
Salsola vermiculata
L.
Salvinia auriculata
Aubl.
Salvinia biloba
Raddi
Salvinia herzogii
de la Sota
Salvinia molesta
D.S. Mitchell
Senecio inaequidens
DC.
Setaria pallide-fusca
(Schumach.) Stapf and Hubb.
Solanum tampicense
Dunal
Solanum torvum
Sw.
Solanum viarum
Dunal
Sparaganium erectum
L.
Spermacoce alata
(Aublet) de Candolle
Striga
spp.
Tridax procumbens
L.
Urochloa panicoides
Beauv.
[65 FR 1706, Jan. 11, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 31794, June 2, 2011]
§ 201.17
Noxious-weed seeds in the District of Columbia.
(a) Noxious-weed seeds in the District of Columbia are: Quackgrass (
Elymus repens
), Canada thistle (
Cirsium arvense
), field bindweed (
Convolvulus arvensis
), bermudagrass (
Cynodon dactylon
), giant bermudagrass (
Cynodon dactylon
var.
aridus
), annual bluegrass (
Poa annua
), and wild garlic or wild onion (
Allium canadense
or
Allium vineale
). The name and number per pound of each kind of such noxious-weed seeds present shall be stated on the label.
(b) [Reserved]
[65 FR 1707, Jan. 11, 2000, as amended at 85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.18
Other agricultural seeds.
Agricultural seeds other than those included in the percentage or percentages of kind, variety, or type may be expressed as “other crop seeds,” but the percentage shall include collectively all kinds, varieties, or types not named upon the label.
[85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.19
Inert matter.
The label shall show the percentage by weight of inert matter.
[5 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.20
Germination
The label shall show the percentage of germination for each kind, kind and variety, kind and type, or kind and hybrid of agricultural seed comprising more than 5 percent of the whole. The label shall show the percentage of germination for each kind, kind and variety, kind and type, or kind and hybrid of agricultural seed comprising 5 percent of the whole or less if the seed is identified individually on the label.
[85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.21
Hard seed or dormant seed.
The label shall show the percentage of hard seed or dormant seed, as defined in § 201.57 or § 201.57a, if any is present. The percentages of hard seed and dormant seed shall not be included as part of the germination percentage.
[85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.22
Date of test.
(a) The label shall show the month and year in which the germination test was completed. No more than 5 calendar months shall have elapsed between the last day of the month in which the germination test was completed and the date of transportation or delivery for transportation in interstate commerce, except for seed in hermetically sealed containers as provided in § 201.36c in which case no more than 24 calendar months shall have elapsed between the last day of the month in which the germination test was completed prior to packaging and the date of transportation or delivery for transportation in interstate commerce.
(b) In the case of a seed mixture, it is only necessary to state the calendar month and year of such test for the kind or variety or type of agricultural seed contained in such mixture which has the oldest calendar month and year test date among the test conducted on all the kinds or varieties or types of agricultural seed contained in such mixture.
(c) The following kinds shall be tested within the indicated time before interstate shipment:
Agricultural seeds and mixtures thereof
Months from test date to shipment
Bentgrass, Colonial
15
Bentgrass, Creeping
15
Bluegrass, Kentucky
15
Fescue, Chewings
15
Fescue, Hard
15
Fescue, Red
15
Fescue, Tall
15
Ryegrass, Annual
15
Ryegrass, Perennial
15
[5 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 32 FR 12779, Sept. 6, 1967; 49 FR 1172, Jan. 10, 1984; 59 FR 64491, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.23
Seller and buyer information.
Consumer packages or containers of agricultural seed for interstate shipment must be labeled as follows:
(a) The full name and address of the interstate shipper or a code designation identifying the interstate shipper, pursuant to § 201.24, must be printed on the label.
(b) If pursuant to paragraph (a) only a code is used to identify the interstate shipper, the full name and address of the consignee must appear on the label.
(c) For purposes of this section and § 201.24, the term
shipper
means the seller or consignor who puts the seed into interstate commerce, and the term
consignee
means the buyer or recipient of the seed shipment.
[85 FR 40579, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.24
Code designation.
The code designation used in lieu of the full name and address of the interstate shipper pursuant to § 201.23(a) shall be approved by the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) or such other person designated by the Administrator for the purpose. When used, the AMS code designation shall appear on the label in a clear and legible manner, along with the full name and address of the consignee.
[85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.24a
Inoculated seed.
Seed claimed to be inoculated shall be labeled to show the month and year beyond which the inoculant on the seed is no longer claimed to be effective by a statement such as, “Inoculant not claimed to be effective after____(Month and year).”
[32 FR 12779, Sept. 6, 1967]

# labeling vegetable seeds
§ 201.25
Contents of the label.
Vegetable seed in packets and in larger containers shall be labeled with the required information in any form that is clearly legible. Any tag used shall be securely attached to the container. The label may contain information in addition to that required by the
Act, provided such information is not misleading.
[5 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.26
Kind, variety, and hybrid.
The label shall bear the name of each kind and variety present as determined in accordance with § 201.34. The name shall not have affixed thereto words or terms that create a misleading impression as to the history or characteristics of kind or variety. If two or more kinds or varieties are present, the percentage of each shall be shown. If any one kind or variety named on the label is “hybrid” seed, it shall be so designated on the label. If two or more kinds or varieties are named on the label, each that is hybrid shall be shown as “hybrid” on the label. Any kind or variety that is less than 95 percent but more than 75 percent hybrid seed as a result of incompletely controlled pollination in a cross shall be labeled to show (a) the percentage that is hybrid seed or (b) a statement such as “Contains from 75 percent to 95 percent hybrid seed.” No one kind or variety of seed shall be labeled as hybrid if it contains less than 75 percent hybrid seed.
[33 FR 10841, July 31, 1968, as amended at 59 FR 64491, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.26a
Vegetable seed mixtures.
Vegetable seed mixtures for seeding/planting purposes shall be designated as a mixture on the label, and each seed component shall be listed on the label in the order of predominance.
[85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.27
Seller and buyer information.
Consumer packages or containers of vegetable seed for interstate shipment must be labeled as follows:
(a) The full name and address of the interstate shipper or a code designation identifying the interstate shipper, pursuant to § 201.28, must be printed on the label.
(b) If pursuant to paragraph (a) only a code is used to identify the interstate shipper, the full name and address of the consignee must appear on the label.
(c) For purposes of this section and § 201.28, the term
shipper
means the seller or consignor who puts the seed into interstate commerce, and the term
consignee
means the buyer or recipient of the seed shipment.
[85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.28
Code designation.
The code designation used in lieu of the full name and address of the interstate shipper pursuant to § 201.27(a) shall be approved by the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) or such other person designated by the Administrator for the purpose. When used, the AMS code designation shall appear on the label in a clear and legible manner, along with the full name and address of the consignee.
[85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.29
Germination of vegetable seed in containers of 1 pound or less.
Vegetable seeds in containers of 1 pound or less which have a germination percentage equal to or better than the standard set forth in § 201.31 need not be labeled to show the percentage of germination and date of test. Each variety of vegetable seed which has a germination percentage less than the standard set forth in § 201.31 shall have the words “Below Standard” clearly shown in a conspicuous place on the label or on the face of the container in type no smaller than 8 points. Each variety which germinates less than the standard shall also be labeled to show the percentage of germination and the percentage of hard seed (if any).
[85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.29a
Germination of vegetable seed in containers of more than 1 pound.
Each variety of vegetable seeds in containers of more than 1 pound shall be labeled to show the percentage of germination and the percentage of hard seed (if any).
[32 FR 12779, Sept. 6, 1967]
§ 201.30
Hard seed.
The label shall show the percentage of hard seed, if any is present, for any seed required to be labeled as to the
percentage of germination, and the percentage of hard seed shall not be included as part of the germination percentage.
[32 FR 12779, Sept. 6, 1967]
§ 201.30a
Date of test.
When the percentage of germination is required to be shown, the label shall show the month and year in which the germination test was completed. No more than 5 calendar months shall have elapsed between the last day of the month in which the germination test was completed and the date of transportation or delivery for transportation in interstate commerce, except for seed in hermetically sealed containers in which case no more than 24 calendar months shall have elapsed between the last day of the month in which the germination test was completed prior to packaging and the date of transportation or delivery for transportation in interstate commerce.
[32 FR 12779, Sept. 6, 1967]
§ 201.30b
Lot number or other lot identification of vegetable seed in containers of more than 1 pound.
The lot number or other lot identification of vegetable seed in containers of more than 1 pound shall be shown on the label and shall be the same as that used in the records pertaining to the same lot of seed.
[35 FR 6108, Apr. 15, 1970]
§ 201.30c
Noxious-weed seeds of vegetable seed in containers of more than 1 pound.
Except for those kinds of noxious-weed seeds shown in § 201.16(b), the names of kinds of noxious-weed seeds and the rate of occurrence of each shall be expressed in the label in accordance with, and the rate shall not exceed the rate permitted by, the law and regulations of the State into which the seed is offered for transportation or is transported. If in the course of such transportation, or thereafter, the seed is diverted to another State of destination, the person or persons responsible for such diversion shall cause the seed to be relabeled with respect to noxious-weed seed content, if necessary, to conform to the laws and regulations of the State into which the seed is diverted.
[85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.31
Minimum germination standards for vegetable seeds in interstate commerce.
The following minimum germination standards for vegetable seeds in interstate commerce, which shall be construed to include hard seed, are determined and established under section 403(c) of the Act:
Percent
Artichoke
60
Asparagus
70
Asparagusbean
75
Bean, garden
70
Bean, lima
70
Bean, runner
75
Beet
65
Broadbean
75
Broccoli
75
Brussels sprouts
70
Burdock, great
60
Cabbage
75
Cabbage, tronchuda
70
Cardoon
60
Carrot
55
Cauliflower
75
Celeriac
55
Celery
55
Chard, Swiss
65
Chicory
65
Chinese cabbage
75
Chives
50
Citron
65
Collards
80
Corn, sweet
75
Cornsalad
70
Cowpea
75
Cress, garden
75
Cress, upland
60
Cress, water
40
Cucumber
80
Dandelion
60
Dill
60
Eggplant
60
Endive
70
Kale
75
Kale, Chinese
75
Kale, Siberian
75
Kohlrabi
75
Leek
60
Lettuce
80
Melon
75
Mustard, India
75
Mustard, spinach
75
Okra
50
Onion
70
Onion, Welsh
70
Pak-choi
75
Parsley
60
Parsnip
60
Pea
80
Pepper
55
Pumpkin
75
Radish
75
Rhubarb
60
Rutabaga
75
Sage
60
Salsify
75
Savory, summer
55
Sorrel
65
Soybean
75
Spinach
60
Spinach, New Zealand
40
Squash
75
Tomato
75
Tomato, husk
50
Turnip
80
Watermelon
70
[59 FR 64491, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]

# labeling in general
§ 201.31a
Labeling treated seed.
(a)
Contents of label.
Any agricultural seed or any mixture thereof or any vegetable seed or any mixture thereof, for seeding purposes, that has been treated shall be labeled in type no smaller than 8 point to indicate that the seed has been treated and to show the name of any substance or a description of any process (other than application of a substance) used in such treatment, in accordance with this section; for example,
Treated with __________ (name of substance or process) or __________ (name of substance or process) treated.
If the substance used in such treatment in the amount remaining with the seed is harmful to humans or other vertebrate animals, the seed shall also bear a label containing additional statements as required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. The label shall contain the required information in any form that is clearly legible and complies with the regulations in this part. The information may be on the tag bearing the analysis information or on a separate tag, or it may be printed in a conspicuous manner on a side or top of the container.
(b)
Name of substance or active ingredient.
The name of any active ingredient substance as required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be the commonly accepted coined, chemical (generic), or abbreviated chemical name. The label shall include either the name of the genus and species or the brand name as identified on biological product labels. Commonly accepted coined names are free for general use by the public, are not private trademarks, and are commonly recognized as names of particular substances, such as thiram, captan, lindane, and dichlone. Examples of commonly accepted chemical (generic) names are blue-stone, calcium carbonate, cuprous oxide, zinc hydroxide, hexachlorobenzene, and ethyl mercury acetate. The terms “mercury” or “mercurial” may be used in labeling all types of mercurials. Examples of commonly accepted abbreviated chemical names are BHC (1,2,3,4,5,6-Hexachlorocyclohexane) and DDT (dichloro diphenyl trichloroethane).
(c)
Mercurials and similarly toxic substances.
(1) Seed treated with a mercurial or similarly toxic substance (Environmental Protection Agency Toxicity Category I), if any amount remains with the seed, shall be labeled to show a representation of a skull and crossbones at least twice the size of the type used for information required to be on the label under paragraph (a) and shall also include in red letters on a background of distinctly contrasting color a statement worded substantially as follows: “This seed has been treated with Poison,” “Treated with Poison,” “Poison treated,” or “Poison”. The word “Poison” shall appear in type no less than 8 point.
(2) Mercurials and similarly toxic substances (Environmental Protection Agency Toxicity Category I) include the following:
Aldrin, technical
Demeton
Dieldrin
p-Dimethylaminobenzenediazo sodium sulfonate
Endrin
Ethion
Heptachlor
Mercurials, all types
Parathion
Phorate
Toxaphene
O - O - Diethyl-O-(isopropyl-4-methyl-6-py- rimidyl) thiophosphate
O, O-Diethyl-S-2-(ethylthio) ethyl phosphorodithioate
Any amount of such substances remaining with the seed is considered harmful within the meaning of this section.
(d)
Other harmful substances.
If a substance, other than one which would be classified as a mercurial or similarly toxic substance under paragraph (c) of this section, is used in the treatment of seed, and the amount remaining with the seed is harmful to humans or other vertebrate animals, the seed shall be labeled with an appropriate caution statement in type no smaller than 8 point worded substantially as follows: “Do not use for food,” “Do not use for feed,” “Do not use for oil purposes,” or “Do not use for food, feed, or oil purposes.” Any amount of any substance, not within paragraph (c) of this section, used in the treatment of the seed, which remains with the seed is considered harmful within the meaning of this section when the seed is in containers of more than 4 ounces, except that the following substances shall not be deemed harmful when present at a rate less than the number of parts per million indicated:
Allethrin—2 p.p.m.
Malathion—8 p.p.m.
Methoxyclor—2 p.p.m.
Piperonyl butoxide—8 p.p.m. on oat and sorghum and 20 p.p.m. on all other seeds.
Pyrethrins—1 p.p.m. on oat and sorghum and 3 p.p.m. on all other seeds.
[24 FR 3953, May 15, 1959, as amended at 25 FR 8769, Sept. 13, 1960; 30 FR 7888, June 18, 1965; 76 FR 31794, June 2, 2011; 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.32
Screenings.
Screenings shipped in interstate commerce, if in containers, shall be labeled in a legible manner with letters not smaller than 18 point type and, if in bulk, shall be invoiced with the words, “Screenings for processing—not for seeding.”
[5 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.33
Seed in bulk or large quantities; seed for cleaning or processing.
(a) In the case of seed in bulk, the information required under sections 201(a), (b), and (i) of the Act shall appear in the invoice or other records accompanying and pertaining to such seed. If the seed is in containers and in quantities of 20,000 pounds or more, regardless of the number of lots included, the information required on each container under sections 201 (a), (b), and (i) of the Act need not be shown on each container;
Provided,
That: (1) The omission from each container of a label with the required information is with the knowledge and consent of the consignee prior to the transportation or delivery for transportation of such seed in interstate commerce; (2) each container has stenciled upon it or bears a label containing a lot designation; and (3) the invoice or other records accompanying and pertaining to such seed bear the various statements required for the respective seeds.
(b) Seed consigned to a seed cleaning or processing establishment, for cleaning or processing for seeding purposes, need not be labeled to show the information required on each container under sections 201 (a), (b), and (i) of the Act if it is in bulk, or in containers and in quantities of 20,000 pounds or more regardless of the number of lots involved, and the invoice or other records accompanying and pertaining to such seed show that it is “Seed for processing,” or, if the seed is in containers and in quantities less than 20,000 pounds and each container bears a label with the words “Seed for processing.” If any such seed is later to be labeled as to origin and/or variety, the origin and/or variety as the case may be, shall be shown on the invoice if the seed is in bulk, otherwise, on a label, at the time of transportation to such establishment, except that if it is covered by a declaration of origin and/or variety it will be sufficient if the lot designation appearing in the declaration is placed on the invoice if the seed is in bulk, or on a label if the seed is in containers, regardless of the quantity.
[24 FR 3953, May 15, 1959, as amended at 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.34
Kind, variety, and type; treatment substances; designation as hybrid.
(a)
Indistinguishable seed and treatment substances.
Reasonable precautions to insure that the kind, variety, or type of indistinguishable agricultural or vegetable seeds and names of any treatment substance are properly stated shall include the maintaining of the records described in § 201.7 or § 201.7a. The examination of the seed
and any pertinent facts may be taken into consideration in determining whether reasonable precautions have been taken to insure the kind, variety, or type of seed or any treatment substance on the seed is that which is shown. Reasonable precautions in labeling ryegrass seed as to kind shall include making or obtaining the results of a fluorescence test unless (1) the shortness of the time interval between receipt of the seed lot and the shipment of the seed in interstate commerce, or (2) dormancy of the seeds in the lot, or (3) other circumstances beyond the control of the shipper prevent such action before the shipment is made. Reasonable precautions in labeling ryegrass seed as to kind shall also include keeping separate each lot labeled on the basis of a separate grower's declaration, invoice, or other documents.
(b)
Name of kind.
The name of each kind of agricultural or vegetable seed is the name listed in § 201.2 (h) or (i), respectively, except that a name which has become synonymous through broad general usage may be substituted therefor, provided the name does not apply to more than one kind and is not misleading.
(c)
Hybrid designation.
Seed shall not be designated in labeling as “hybrid” seed unless it comes within the definition of “hybrid” in § 201.2(y).
(d)
Name of variety.
The name of each variety of agricultural or vegetable seed is the name determined in accordance with the following considerations:
(1) The variety name shall represent a subdivision of a kind, which is characterized by growth, plant, fruit, seed, or other characters by which it can be differentiated from other sorts of the same kind.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the name of a new variety shall be the name given by the originator or discoverer of the variety, except that in the event the originator or discoverer of a new unnamed variety, at the time seed of the variety is first introduced into channels of commerce of the United States for sale to the public, cannot or chooses not to name the variety, the name of the variety shall be the first name under which the seed is introduced into such commerce. However, if the variety name so provided is in a language not using the Roman alphabet, the variety shall be given a name by the person authorized under this paragraph to name the variety, in a language using the Roman alphabet.
(3) The variety name shall not be misleading. The same variety name shall not be assigned to more than one variety of the same kind of seed.
(4) The status under the Federal Seed Act of a variety name is not modified by the registration of such name as a trademark.
(5) Names of varieties which through broad general usage prior to July 28, 1956 were recognized variety names, except for hybrid seed corn, shall be considered variety names without regard to the principles stated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(6) The variety name for any variety of hybrid seed corn first introduced into commercial channels in the United States for sale prior to October 20, 1951, shall be any name used for such variety in such channels prior to that date. The variety name for any variety of hybrid seed corn first introduced into commercial channels in the United States for sale on or after October 20, 1951, shall be the name assigned in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(e) [Reserved]
[20 FR 7928, Oct. 21, 1955]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 201.34, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 201.35
Blank spaces.
Blank spaces on the label shall be deemed to imply the word “None,” when such interpretation is reasonable.
[5 FR 32, Jan. 4, 1940]
§ 201.36
The words “free” and “none.”
The words “free” and “none” shall be construed to mean that none were found in a test complying with the methods set forth in §§ 201.45-201.52.
[5 FR 32, Jan. 4, 1940]

# modifying statements
§ 201.36a
Disclaimers and nonwarranties.
A disclaimer, nonwarranty, or limited warranty used in any invoice or other labeling, or advertisement shall not directly or indirectly deny or modify any information required by the act or the regulations in this part.
[15 FR 2394, Apr. 28, 1950]

# advertising
§ 201.36b
Name of kind and variety; designation as hybrid.
(a) The representation of the name of a kind or kind and variety of seed in any advertisement subject to the Act shall be confined to the name of the kind or kind and variety determined in accordance with § 201.34. The name shall not have associated therewith words or terms that create a misleading impression as to the history or characteristics of the kind or kind and variety. Descriptive terms and firm names may be used in kind or variety names provided the descriptive terms or firm names are a part of the name or variety of seed; for example, Stringless Green Pod, Detroit Dark Red, Black Seeded Simpson and Henderson Bush Lima. Seed shall not be designated as hybrid seed in any advertisement subject to the Act unless it comes within the definition of “hybrid” in § 201.2(y).
(b) Terms descriptive as to color, shape, size, habit of growth, disease-resistance, or other characteristics of the kind or variety may be associated with the name of the kind or variety provided it is done in a manner which clearly indicates the descriptive term is not a part of the name of the kind or variety; for example, Oshkosh pepper (yellow), Copenhagen Market (round head) cabbage, and Kentucky Wonder (pole) garden bean.
(c) Terms descriptive of quality or origin and terms descriptive of the basis for representations made may be associated with the name of the kind or variety:
Provided,
That the terms are clearly identified as being other than part of the name of the kind or variety; for example, Fancy quality redtop, Idaho origin alfalfa, and Grower's affidavit of variety Atlas sorghum.
(d) Terms descriptive of the manner or method of production or processing the seed (for example, certified, registered, delinted, scarified, treated, and hulled), may be associated with the name of the kind or variety of seed, providing such terms are not misleading.
(e) Brand names and terms taken from trademarks may be associated with the name of the kind or variety of seed as an indication of source:
Provided,
That the terms are clearly identified as being other than a part of the name of the kind or variety; for example, Ox Brand Golden Cross sweet corn. Seed shall not be advertised under a trademark or brand name in any manner that may create the impression that the trademark or brand name is a variety name. If seed advertised under a trademark or brand name is a mixture of varieties and if the variety names are not stated in the advertising, a description similar to a varietal description or a comparison with a named variety shall not be used if it creates the impression that the seed is of a single variety.
[21 FR 4652, June 27, 1956, as amended at 32 FR 12780, Sept. 6, 1967; 59 FR 64491, Dec. 14, 1994; 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.36c
Hermetically-sealed containers.
The 5-month limitation on the date of test in §§ 201.22 and 201.30a shall not apply when the following conditions have been met:
(a) The seed was packaged within 9 months after harvest;
(b) The container used does not allow water vapor penetration through any wall, including the seals, greater than 0.05 grams of water per 24 hours per 100 square inches of surface at 100 °F. with a relative humidity on one side of 90 percent and on the other side of 0 percent. Water vapor penetration or WVP is measured by the standards of the U.S. Bureau of Standards as:
gm.H
2
O / 24 hr. / 100 sq. in. / 100 °F. / 90% RH V.0% RH;
(c) The seed in the container does not exceed the percentage of moisture, on a wet weight basis, as listed below:
Agricultural seeds
Percent
Beet, field
7.5
Beet, sugar
7.5
Bluegrass, Kentucky
6.0
Clover, crimson
8.0
Fescue, red
8.0
Mustard, India
5.0
Ryegrass, annual
8.0
Ryegrass, perennial
8.0
All others
6.0
Vegetable seeds
Percent
Bean, garden
7.0
Bean, lima
7.0
Beet
7.5
Broccoli
5.0
Brussels sprouts
5.0
Cabbage
5.0
Cabbage, Chinese
5.0
Carrot
7.0
Cauliflower
5.0
Celeriac
7.0
Celery
7.0
Chard, Swiss
7.5
Chives
6.5
Collards
5.0
Corn, sweet
8.0
Cucumber
6.0
Eggplant
6.0
Kale
5.0
Kohlrabi
5.0
Leek
6.5
Lettuce
5.5
Melon
6.0
Mustard, India
5.0
Onion
6.5
Onion, Welsh
6.5
Parsley
6.5
Parsnip
6.0
Pea
7.0
Pepper
4.5
Pumpkin
6.0
Radish
5.0
Rutabaga
5.0
Spinach
8.0
Squash
6.0
Tomato
5.5
Turnip
5.0
Watermelon
6.5
All others
6.0
(d) The container is conspicuously labeled in not less than 8 point type to indicate (1) that the container is hermetically sealed, (2) that the seed has been preconditioned as to moisture content, and (3) the calendar month and year in which the germination test was completed.
(e) The percentage of germination of vegetable seed at the time of packaging was equal to or above the standards in § 201.31.
[32 FR 12780, Sept. 6, 1967, as amended at 59 FR 64491, Dec. 14, 1994]

# inspection
§ 201.37
Authorization.
When authorized by the Administrator of the Agriculture Marketing Service, or by such other person as may be designated for the purpose, Federal employees and qualified State officials, for the purposes of the Act, may draw samples of, secure information and inspect records pertaining to, and otherwise inspect seeds and screenings subject to the Act.
[15 FR 2394, Apr. 28, 1950, as amended at 59 FR 64492, Dec. 14, 1994; 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.38
[Reserved]

# sampling in the administration of the act
§ 201.39
General procedure.
(a) In order to secure a representative sample, equal portions shall be taken from evenly distributed parts of the quantity of seed or screenings to be sampled. Access shall be had to all parts of that quantity. When more than one trierful of seed is drawn from a bag, different paths shall be followed. When more than one handful is taken from a bag, the handfuls shall be taken from well-separated points.
(b) For free-flowing seed in bags or bulk, a probe or trier shall be used. For small free-flowing seed in bags a probe or trier long enough to sample all portions of the bag should be used.
(c) Non-free-flowing seed, such as certain grass seed, uncleaned seed, or screenings, difficult to sample with a probe or trier, shall be sampled by thrusting the hand into the bulk and withdrawing representative portions. The hand is inserted in an open position and the fingers are held closely together while the hand is being inserted and the portion withdrawn.
(d) As the seed or screenings are sampled, each portion shall be examined. If there appears to be a lack of uniformity, the portions shall not be combined into a composite sample but shall be retained as separate samples or combined to form individual-container samples to determine such lack of uniformity as may exist.
(e) When the portions appear to be uniform, they shall be combined to form a composite sample.
[5 FR 32, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 10 FR 9950, Aug. 11, 1945; 25 FR 8769, Sept. 13, 1960; 26 FR 10035, Oct. 26, 1961; 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.40
Bulk.
Bulk seeds or screenings shall be sampled by inserting a long probe or thrusting the hand into the bulk as circumstances require in at least seven uniformly distributed parts of the quantity being sampled. At least as many trierfuls or handfuls shall be taken as the minimum which would be required for the same quantity of seed or screenings in bags of a size customarily used for such seed or screenings.
[5 FR 32, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 26 FR 10035, Oct. 26, 1961]
§ 201.41
Bags.
(a) For lots of six bags or fewer, each bag shall be sampled. A total of at least five trierfuls shall be taken.
(b) For lots of more than six bags, five bags plus at least 10 percent of the number of bags in the lot shall be sampled. (Round off numbers with decimals to the nearest whole number, raising 0.5 to the next whole number.) Regardless of the lot size it is not necessary that more than 30 bags be sampled.
(c) Samples shall be drawn from unopened bags except under circumstances where the identity of the seed has been preserved.
[5 FR 32, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 26 FR 10035, Oct. 26, 1961; 76 FR 31794, June 2, 2011]
§ 201.42
Small containers.
In sampling seed in small containers that it is not practical to sample as required in § 201.41, a portion of one unopened container or one or more entire unopened containers may be taken to supply a minimum size sample, as required in § 201.43.
[30 FR 7888, June 18, 1965]
§ 201.43
Size of sample.
The following are minimum sizes of samples of agricultural seed, vegetable seed and screenings to be submitted for analysis, test, or examination:
(a) Two ounces (57 grams) of grass seed not otherwise mentioned, white or alsike clover, or seeds not larger than these.
(b) Five ounces (142 grams) of red or crimson clover, alfalfa, lespedeza, ryegrass, bromegrass, millet, flax, rape, or seeds of similar size.
(c) One pound (454 grams) of sudangrass, proso millet, hemp, or seeds of similar size.
(d) Two pounds (907 grams) of cereals, sorghum, vetch, or seeds of similar or larger size.
(e) Two quarts (2.2 liters) of screenings.
(f) Vegetable seed samples shall consist of at least 400 seeds.
(g) Coated seed for a purity analysis shall consist of at least 7,500 seed units. Coated seed for noxious-weed seed examination shall consist of at least 30,000 seed units. Coated seed for germination test only shall consist of at least 1,000 seed units.
[10 FR 9950, Aug. 11, 1945, as amended at 15 FR 2394, Apr. 28, 1950; 59 FR 64492, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.44
Forwarding samples.
Before being forwarded for analysis, test, or examination, the containers of samples shall be properly sealed and identified in such manner as may be prescribed by AMS. Samples of coated seed shall be forwarded in firmly packed crush-proof and moisture-proof containers.
[59 FR 64492, Dec. 14, 1994]

# purity analysis in the administration of the act
§ 201.45
Obtaining the working sample.
(a) The working sample on which the actual analysis is made shall be taken from the submitted sample in such a manner that it will be representative.
(b) The sample shall be repeatedly divided to the weight to be used for the working sample. Some form of efficient mechanical divider should be used. To avoid damaging large seeds and coated seeds, a divider should be used which will prevent the seeds from falling great distances onto hard surfaces. In case the proper mechanical divider cannot be used or is not available, the
sample shall be thoroughly mixed and placed in a pile and the pile shall be repeatedly divided into halves until a sample of the desired weight remains.
[5 FR 32, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 20 FR 7929, Oct. 21, 1955; 25 FR 8769, Sept. 13, 1960; 59 FR 64492, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.46
Weight of working sample.
(a)
Unmixed seed.
The working samples for purity analysis and noxiousweed seed examination of unmixed seed shall be at least the weights set forth in table 1.
(b) Mixtures consisting of one predominant kind of seed or groups of kinds of similar size. The weights of the purity and noxious-weed seed working samples in this category shall be determined by the kind or group of kinds which comprise more than 50 percent of the sample.
(c)
Mixtures consisting of two or more kinds or groups of kinds of different sizes, none of which comprise over 50 percent of the sample.
The weights of the purity working samples in this category shall be the weighted averages (to the nearest half gram) of the weights listed in table 1 for each of the kinds which comprise the sample determined by the following method: (1) Multiply the percentage of each component in the mixture (rounded off to the nearest whole number) by the sample sizes specified in column 2, table 1, (2) add all these products, (3) total the percentages of all components of the mixtures, and (4) divide the sum in paragraph (c)(2) of this section by the total in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If the approximate percentage of the components of a mixture are not known they may be estimated. The weight of the noxious-weed seed working sample shall be determined by multiplying the weight of the purity working sample by 10 or by calculating the weighted average in the same manner described above for the purity working sample.
(d) Coated seed.
(1) Unmixed coated seed. Due to variation in the weight of coating materials, the size or weight of the working sample shall be determined separately for each lot. The weight of the working sample shall be determined by weighing 100 completely coated units and calculating the weight of 2,500 coated units for the purity analysis and 25,000 coated units for the noxious-weed seed examination.
(2) Mixtures of coated seed. The working weight shall be determined in the following manner:
(i) Calculate the weight of the working sample to be used for the mixture under consideration as though the sample were not coated by following paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(ii) Determine the amount of coating material on 100 coated units by weighing the coated units. Remove the coating material using the methods described in §§ 201.51b (c) and (d). Calculate the percentage of coating material using the following formulas:
Weight of coating material = weight of 100 coated units − weight of 100 de-coated units;
The percentage of coating material = weight of the coating material divided by the weight of 100 coated units × 100%.
(iii) The weight of the working sample shall be the product of the weight calculated in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section multiplied by 100 percent, divided by 100 percent minus the percentage of coating material calculated in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.
Table 1—Weight of Working Sample
Name of seed
Minimum weight for purity analysis (grams)
Minimum weight for noxious-weed seed examination (grams)
Approximate number of seeds per gram
Agricultural Seed
Agrotricum
65
500
39
Alfalfa
5
50
500
Alfilaria
5
50
440
Alyceclover
5
50
665
Bahiagrass:
Var. Pensacola
5
50
600
All other vars.
7
50
365
Barley
100
500
30
Barrelclover
10
100
250
Bean:
Adzuki
200
500
11
Field
500
500
4
Mung
100
500
24
Beet, field
50
500
55
Beet, sugar
50
500
55
Beggarweed, Florida
5
50
440
Bentgrass:
Colonial
0.25
2.5
13,000
Creeping
0.25
2.5
13,515
Velvet
0.25
2.5
18,180
Bermudagrass
1
10
3,930
Bermudagrass, giant
1
10
2,950
Bluegrass:
Annual
1
10
2,635
Bulbous
4
40
585
Canada
0.5
5
5,050
Glaucantha
1
10
Kentucky
1
10
3,060
Nevada
1
10
2,305
Rough
0.5
5
4,610
Texas
1
10
2,500
Wood
0.5
5
4,330
Bluejoint
0.5
5
8,461
Bluestem:
Big
7
70
320
Little
5
50
525
Sand
10
100
215
Yellow
1
10
1,945
Bottlebrush-squirreltail
9
90
300
Brome:
Field
5
50
465
Meadow
13
130
190
Mountain
20
200
140
Smooth
7
70
315
Broomcorn
40
400
60
Buckwheat
50
500
45
Buffalograss:
(Burs)
20
200
110
(Caryopses)
3
30
740
Buffelgrass:
(Fascicles)
6
66
365
(Caryopses)
2
20
1,940
Burclover, California:
(in bur)
50
500
(out of bur)
7
70
375
Burclover, spotted
(in bur)
50
500
50
(out of bur)
5
50
550
Burnet, little
25
250
110
Buttonclover
7
70
365
Camelina
4
40
880
Canarygrass
20
200
150
Canarygrass, reed
2
20
1,185
Carpetgrass
1
10
2,230
Castorbean
500
500
5
Chess, soft
5
50
555
Chickpea
500
500
2
Clover:
Alsike
2
20
1,500
Arrowleaf
4
40
705
Berseem
5
50
455
Cluster
1
10
2,925
Crimson
10
100
330
Kenya
2
20
Ladino
2
20
1,935
Lappa
2
20
1,500
Large hop
1
10
5,435
Persian
2
20
1,415
Red
5
50
600
Rose
7
70
360
Small hop
2
20
1,950
Strawberry
5
50
635
Sub
25
250
120
White
2
20
1,500
Corn:
Field
500
500
3
Pop
500
500
3
Cotton
300
500
8
Cowpea
300
500
8
Crambe
25
250
Crested dogtail
2
20
1,900
Crotalaria:
Lance
7
70
375
Showy
25
250
80
Slenderleaf
10
100
205
Striped
10
100
215
Sunn
75
500
35
Crownvetch
10
100
305
Dallisgrass
4
40
620
Dichondra
5
50
470
Dropseed, sand
0.25
2.5
12,345
Emmer
100
500
25
Fescue:
Chewings
3
30
900
Hair
1
10
Hard
2
20
1,305
Meadow
5
50
495
Red
3
30
900
Sheep
2
20
1,165
Tall
5
50
455
Flatpea
100
500
25
Flax
15
150
180
Foxtail, creeping
1.5
15
1,736
Foxtail, meadow
3
30
893
Galletagrass:
(Other than caryopses)
10
100
260
(Caryopses)
5
50
580
Grama:
Blue
2
20
1,595
Side-oats:
(Other than caryopses)
6
60
350
(Caryopses)
2
20
1,605
Guar
75
500
35
Guineagrass
2
20
2,205
Hardinggrass
3
30
750
Hemp
50
500
45
Indiangrass, yellow
7
70
395
Indigo, hairy
7
70
435
Japanese lawngrass
2
20
1,325
Johnsongrass
10
100
265
Kenaf
50
500
Kochia, forage
2
20
1,070
Kudzu
25
250
80
Lentil
120
500
14-23
Lespedeza:
Korean
5
50
525
Sericea
3
30
820
Siberian
3
30
820
Striate
5
50
750
Lovegrass, sand
1
10
3,585
Lovegrass, weeping
1
10
3,270
Lupine:
Blue
500
500
7
White
500
500
7
Yellow
300
500
9
Manilagrass
2
20
Medic, black
5
50
585
Milkvetch
9
90
270
Millet:
Browntop
8
80
315
Foxtail
5
50
480
Japanese
9
90
315
Pearl
15
150
180
Proso
15
150
185
Molassesgrass
0.5
5
7,750
Mustard:
Black
2
20
1,255
India
5
50
625
White
15
150
160
Napiergrass
5
50
Needlegrass, green
7
70
370
Oat
75
500
35-50
Oatgrass, tall
6
60
417
Orchardgrass
3
30
945
Panicgrass, blue
2
20
1,370
Panicgrass, green
2
20
1,305
Pea, field
500
500
4
Peanut
500
500
1-3
Radish
30
300
75
Rape:
Annual
7
70
345
Bird
7
70
425
Turnip
5
50
535
Winter
10
100
230
Redtop
0.25
2.5
10,695
Rescuegrass
20
200
115
Rhodesgrass
1
10
4,725
Rice
50
500
65
Ricegrass, Indian
7
70
355
Roughpea
75
500
40
Rye
75
500
40
Rye, mountain
28
280
90
Ryegrass:
Annual
5
50
420
Intermediate
8
80
338
Perennial
5
50
530
Wimmera
5
50
Safflower
100
500
30
Sagewort, Louisiana
0.5
5
8,900
Sainfoin
50
500
50
Saltbush, fourwing
15
150
165
Sesame
7
70
360
Sesbania
25
250
105
Smilo
2
20
2,010
Sorghum
50
500
55
Sorghum almum
15
150
150
Sorghum-sudangrass
65
500
38
Sorgrass
1
15
150
135
Sourclover
5
50
660
Soybean
500
500
6-13
Spelt
100
500
25
Sudangrass
25
250
100
Sunflower
100
500
Sweetclover:
White
5
50
570
Yellow
5
50
570
Sweet vernalgrass
2
20
1,600
Sweetvetch, northern
19
190
130
Switchgrass
4
40
570
Teff
1
10
3,288
Timothy
1
10
2,565
Timothy, turf
1
10
2,565
Tobacco
0.5
5
15,625
Trefoil:
Big
2
20
1,945
Birdsfoot
3
30
815
Triticale
100
500
Vaseygrass
3
30
970
Veldtgrass
4
40
655
Velvetbean
500
500
2
Velvetgrass
1
10
3,360
Vetch:
Common
150
500
19
Hairy
75
500
35
Hungarian
100
500
24
Monantha
100
500
Narrowleaf
50
500
60
Purple
100
500
22
Woollypod
100
500
25
Wheat:
Common
100
500
25
Club
100
500
25
Durum
100
500
25
Polish
100
500
25
Poulard
100
500
25
Wheat × Agrotricum
65
500
38
Wheatgrass:
Beardless
8
80
275
Fairway crested
4
40
685
Standard crested
5
50
425
Intermediate
15
150
175
Pubescent
15
150
180
Siberian
5
50
Slender
7
70
295
Streambank
10
50
370
Tall
15
150
165
Western
10
100
250
Wildrye:
Basin
8
80
317
Canada
11
110
190
Russian
6
60
360
Vegetable Seed
Artichoke
100
500
24
Asparagus
100
500
25
Asparagusbean
300
500
8
Bean:
Garden
500
500
4
Lima
500
500
2
Runner
500
500
1
Beet
50
300
60
Broadbean
500
500
Broccoli
10
50
315
Brussels sprouts
10
50
315
Burdock, great
15
150
Cabbage
10
50
315
Cabbage, Chinese
5
50
635
Cabbage, tronchuda
10
100
Cardoon
100
500
Carrot
3
50
825
Cauliflower
10
50
315
Celeriac
1
25
2,520
Celery
1
25
2,520
Chard, Swiss
50
300
60
Chicory
3
50
940
Chives
5
50
Citron
200
500
11
Collards
10
50
315
Corn, sweet
500
500
Cornsalad:
Vars. Fullhearted and Dark Green Fullhearted
5
50
All other vars
10
50
380
Cowpea
300
500
8
Cress:
Garden
5
50
425
Upland
2
35
1,160
Water
1
25
5,170
Cucumber
75
500
40
Dandelion
2
35
1,240
Dill
3
50
800
Eggplant
10
50
230
Endive
3
50
940
Gherkin, West India
16
160
153
Kale
10
50
315
Kale, Chinese
10
50
Kale, Siberian
8
80
325
Kohlrabi
10
50
315
Leek
7
50
395
Lettuce
3
50
890
Melon
50
500
45
Mustard, India
5
50
625
Mustard, spinach
5
50
535
Okra
100
500
19
Onion
7
50
340
Onion, Welsh
10
50
Pak-choi
5
50
635
Parsley
5
50
650
Parsnip
5
50
430
Pea
500
500
3
Pepper
15
150
165
Pumpkin
500
500
5
Radish
30
300
75
Rhubarb
50
300
60
Rutabaga
5
50
430
Sage
25
150
120
Salsify
50
300
65
Savory, summer
2
35
1,750
Sorrel
2
35
1,080
Soybean
500
500
6-13
Spinach
25
150
100
Spinach, New Zealand
200
500
13
Squash
200
500
14
Tomato
5
50
405
Tomato, husk
2
35
1,240
Turnip
5
50
535
Watermelon
200
500
11
1
Rhizomatous derivatives of a johnsongrass × sorghum cross or a johnsongrass × sudangrass cross.
[25 FR 8769, Sept. 13, 1960, as amended at 30 FR 7888, June 18, 1965; 32 FR 12780, Sept. 6, 1967; 35 FR 6108, Apr. 15, 1970; 41 FR 20156, May 17, 1976; 46 FR 53635, Oct. 29, 1981; 59 FR 64492, Dec. 14, 1994; 65 FR 1707, Jan. 11, 2000; 85 FR 40580, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.47
Separation.
(a) The working sample shall be weighed in grams to four significant figures and shall then be separated into four parts: (1) Kind or variety to be considered pure seed, (2) other crop seed, (3) weed seed, and (4) inert matter. The components shall be weighed in grams to the same number of decimal places as the working sample. The percentage of each part shall be determined to two decimal places.
(b) Aids for the classification of pure seed, other crop seed, weed seed, and inert matter may include visual examination, use of transmitted light (diaphanoscope), or specific gravity (seed blowers). Specific instructions for classification of the various components are given in §§ 201.47a to 201.51, inclusive.
(c) The components shall be weighed and percentages calculated as follows:
(1) For sample sizes less than 25 grams, all four components shall be weighed; the percentages shall be based on the sum of these weights and not on the original weight. The sum of these weights shall be compared with the original weight of the working sample as a check against the loss of material, or other errors.
(2) For sample sizes of 25 grams or more, the components—other crop seed, weed seed, and inert matter—shall be weighed separately and their percentages determined by dividing these weights by the original weight of the working sample. The pure seed need not be weighed; its percentage may be determined by subtracting the sum of the percentages of the other three components from 100.
(3) When rounding off the calculated percentages of each component to the second decimal place, round down if the third decimal place is 4 or less and round up if the third decimal place is 5 or more, except that if any component is determined to be present in any amount calculated to be less than 0.015 percent, then that component shall be reported as 0.01 percent. If any component is not found in the purity analysis, then that component shall be reported as 0.00 percent.
(4) The total percentage of all components shall be 100.00 percent. If the total does not equal 100.00 percent (e.g. 99.99 percent or 100.01 percent), then add to or subtract from the component with the largest value (usually the pure seed component).
(d) When the working sample consists of two or more similar kinds or varieties which would be difficult to separate in the entire sample, it is permissible to weigh the similar kinds or varieties together as one component and
make the separation on a reduced portion of the sample. At least 400 seeds or an equivalent weight shall be taken indiscriminately from the pure seed component and the separation made on this portion. The proportion of each kind present shall then be determined by weight and from this the percentage in the entire sample shall be calculated.
(e) The Uniform Blowing Procedure described in § 201.51a(a) shall be used for the separation of pure seed and inert matter in seeds of Kentucky bluegrass, Canada bluegrass, rough bluegrass, Pensacola variety of bahiagrass, orchardgrass, side-oats grama, and blue grama.
(f) Procedures for purity analysis for coated seed are given in § 201.51b.
[25 FR 8770, Sept. 13, 1960, as amended at 30 FR 7890, June 18, 1965; 46 FR 53635, Oct. 29, 1981; 59 FR 64497, Dec. 14, 1994; 65 FR 1707, Jan. 11, 2000]
§ 201.47a
Seed unit.
The seed unit is the structure usually regarded as a seed in planting practices and in commercial channels. The seed unit may consist of one or more of the following structures:
(a) True seeds;
(b) For the grass family:
(1) Caryopses and single florets;
(2) Multiple florets and spikelets in tall oatgrass (Arrhenatherum elatius), oat (Avena spp.), gramas (Bouteloua spp.), rhodesgrass (Chloris gayana), barley (Hordeum vulgare), and bluegrass (Poa spp.);
(3) Entire spikelets in bahiagrass, bentgrasses, dallisgrass, guineagrass, browntop millet, foxtail millet, proso millet, panicgrasses, redtop, rice, switchgrass, and vaseygrass. Entire spikelets which may have attached rachis segments, pedicels, and sterile spikelets in big bluestem, little bluestem, sand bluestem, yellow bluestem, bottlebrush-squirreltail, broomcorn, yellow indiangrass, johnsongrass, sorghum, sorghum- sudangrass, sorghum almum, sorgrass, and sudangrass;
(4) Spikelet groups:
(i) Spikelet groups that disarticulate as a unit in galletagrass;
(ii) Spikelet groups that disarticulate as units with attached rachis and internodes in bluestems, side-oats grama, and yellow indiangrass;
(5) Fascicles of buffelgrass (Cenchrus ciliaris) consisting of bristles and spikelets;
(6) Burs of buffalograss (Bouteloua dactyloides);
(7) Bulblets of bulbous bluegrass (Poa bulbosa);
(8) Multiple units as defined in § 201.51a(b)(1).
(c) Dry indehiscent fruits in the following plant families: Buckwheat (Polygonaceae), sunflower (Asteraceae), geranium (Geraniaceae), goosefoot (Chenopodiaceae), and valerian (Valerianaceae);
(d) One- and two-seeded pods of small-seeded legumes (Fabaceae), burs of the burclovers (Medicago arabica, M. polymorpha), and pods of peanuts (Arachis hypogaea). (This does not preclude the shelling of small-seeded legumes for purposes of identification.) Pods of legumes normally containing more than two seeds, when occurring incidentally in the working sample, should be hulled if the kind is hulled when marketed;
(e) Fruits or half fruits in the carrot family (Apiaceae);
(f) Nutlets in the following plant families: Borage (Boraginaceae), mint (Lamiaceae), and vervain (Verbenaceae);
(g) “Seed balls” or portions thereof in multigerm beets, and fruits with accessory structures such as occur in other Chenopodiaceae and New Zealand spinach. For forage kochia refer to § 201.48(j) and § 201.51(a)(7).
[46 FR 53636, Oct. 29, 1981, as amended at 59 FR 64497, Dec. 14, 1994; 65 FR 1707, Jan. 11, 2000; 85 FR 40581, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.47b
Working samples.
The purity working sample is the sample on which the purity analysis is made. The noxious-weed seed working sample is the sample on which the noxious-weed seed examination is made.
[20 FR 7930, Oct. 21, 1955]
§ 201.48
Kind or variety considered pure seed.
The pure seed shall include all seeds of each kind or each kind and variety under consideration present in excess of 5 percent by weight of the whole.
Seeds of kinds or kinds and varieties present to the extent of 5 percent or less of the whole may be considered pure seed if shown on the label as components of a mixture in amounts of 5 percent or less. The following shall be included with the pure seed:
(a) Immature or shriveled seeds and seeds that are cracked or injured. For seeds of legumes (Fabaceae) and crucifers (Brassicaceae) with the seed coats entirely removed refer to § 201.51(a)(1);
(b) Pieces of seeds which are larger than one-half of the original size. For separated cotyledons of legume seeds refer to § 201.51(a)(2);
(c) Insect-damaged seeds, provided that the damage is entirely internal, or that the opening in the seed coat is not sufficiently large so as to allow the size of the remaining mass of tissue to be readily determined. Weevil-infested vetch seeds, irrespective of the amount of insect damage, are to be considered pure seed, unless they are broken pieces one-half or less than the original size. For classification of broken pieces of seed units one-half or less than the original size, refer to § 201.51(a)(2). Refer to § 201.51(a)(3) for chalcid-damaged seeds;
(d) Seeds that have started to germinate;
(e) Seeds of the cucurbit family (Cucurbitaceae) and the nightshade family (Solanaceae) whether they are filled or empty;
(f) Intact fruits, whether or not they contain seed, of species belonging to the following families: Sunflower (Asteraceae), buckwheat (Polygonaceae), carrot (Apiaceae), valerian (Valerianaceae), mint (Laminaceae) and other families in which the seed unit may be a dry, indehiscent one-seeded fruit. For visibly empty fruits, refer to inert matter, § 201.51(a)(6);
(g) Seed units of the grass family listed in § 201.47a(b) (1) through (5) if a caryopsis with some degree of endosperm development can be detected in the units, either by slight pressure or by examination over light. Seed units of smooth brome, fairway crested wheatgrass, standard crested wheatgrass, tall wheatgrass, intermediate wheatgrass, pubescent wheatgrass, western wheatgrass, fescues (
Festuca
spp.), and ryegrasses (
Lolium
spp.) if the caryopses are at least one-third the length of the palea; the caryopsis is measured from the base of the rachilla. Species in which determination of endosperm development is not necessary are listed in paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section. Refer to §§ 201.48(h) and 201.51(a)(5) when nematode galls and fungal bodies have replaced the caryopsis in seed units. The following procedures apply to determine pure seed in the grass families listed below:
(1) Intact burs of buffalograss (
Bouteloua dactyloides
) shall be considered pure seed whether or not a caryopsis is present. Refer to § 201.51(a)(6) for burs which are visibly empty.
(2) The Uniform Blowing Procedure described in § 201.51a(a) shall be used to determine classification of florets into pure seed or inert matter for Kentucky bluegrass, Canada bluegrass, rough bluegrass, Pensacola variety of bahiagrass, side-oats grama, blue grama, and orchardgrass.
(3) Special purity procedures for smooth brome, fairway crested wheatgrass, standard crested wheatgrass, intermediate wheatgrass, pubescent wheatgrass, tall wheatgrass, and western wheatgrass are listed in § 201.51a(b).
(4) For methods of determining pure seed percentages of annual and perennial ryegrass, refer to §§ 201.58(b)(10) and 201.58a(a).
(h) Seed units with nematode galls, fungal bodies (i.e. ergot, other sclerotia, and smut) and spongy or corky caryopses that are entirely enclosed within the seed unit. Refer to § 201.51(c)(1) for inert matter classification.
(i) Seed units of beet and other Chenopodiaceae, and New Zealand spinach. Refer to § 201.47a(g) and § 201.51(a)(6) for definitions of seed units and inert matter, respectively.
(j) Seed units of forage kochia that are retained on a 1 mm opening square-hole sieve, when shaken for 30 seconds. For inert matter, refer to § 201.51(a)(7).
[46 FR 53636, Oct. 29, 1981, as amended at 59 FR 64497, Dec. 14, 1994; 76 FR 31794, June 2, 2011; 85 FR 40581, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.49
Other crop seed.
(a) Seeds of plants grown as crops (other than the kind(s) and variety(ies) included in the pure seed) shall be considered other crop seeds, unless recognized as weed seeds by applicable laws, or regulations, or by general usage. All interpretations and definitions for “pure seed” in § 201.48 shall also apply in determining whether seeds are “other crop seed” or “inert matter” with the following two exceptions which may be applied as acceptable alternatives:
(1) Uniform Blowing Procedure in § 201.51a(a) for kinds listed in § 201.47(e) may be disregarded. If disregarded, all seed units (as defined in § 201.47a) for these kinds found in the working sample shall be manually separated into pure seed and inert matter. Only units containing at least one caryopsis with some degree of endosperm development which can be detected either by slight pressure or by examination over light are considered other crop seed.
(2) Multiple Unit Procedure in § 201.51a(b) for kinds listed in § 201.48(g)(3) may be disregarded. If disregarded, all multiple units and single units (as defined in § 201.51a(b)) for these kinds found in the working sample shall be manually separated into single florets. Each floret containing a caryopsis with some degree of endosperm development, which can be detected either by slight pressure or examination over light, is considered other crop seed. Empty florets and glumes, if present, are considered inert matter. Refer to § 201.51(a)(4).
(b) [Reserved]
[59 FR 64498, Dec. 14, 1994; 60 FR 2493, Jan. 10, 1995]
§ 201.50
Weed seed.
Seeds (including bulblets or tubers) of plants shall be considered weed seeds when recognized as weed seeds by the law or rules and regulations of the State into which the seed is offered for transportation or transported; or by the law or rules and regulations of Puerto Rico, Guam, or District of Columbia into which transported, or District of Columbia in which sold; or found by the Secretary of Agriculture to be detrimental to the agricultural interests of the United States, or any part thereof. Damaged weed seeds and immature seedlike structures, as described in § 201.51(b), shall be considered inert matter. Weed seeds, as defined above in this section, requiring further separation into weed seed and inert matter components are as follows:
(a) The individual seeds are to be removed from fruiting structures such as pods and heads. The seeds are classified as weed seed and the remaining fruiting structures classified as inert matter.
(b) Wild onion and wild garlic (
Allium
spp.) bulblets that have any part of the husk remaining and are not damaged at the basal end are considered weed seeds regardless of size. Bulblets that are completely devoid of husk, and are not damaged at the basal end, and are retained by a
1/13
-inch (1.9 mm) round-hole sieve are considered weed seeds. For wild onion and wild garlic (
Allium
spp.) bulblets classed as inert matter, refer to § 201.51(b)(5).
[46 FR 53636, Oct. 29, 1981, as amended at 59 FR 64498, Dec. 14, 1994; 65 FR 1707, Jan. 11, 2000]
§ 201.51
Inert matter.
Inert matter shall include seeds and seed-like structures from both crop and weed plants and other material not seeds as follows:
(a) Seeds and seed-like structures from crop plants:
(1) Seeds of legumes (Fabaceae) and brassica (Brassicaceae) with the seed coats entirely removed. Refer to § 210.48(a) for pure seed classification.
(2) Pieces of broken and damaged seed units, including those that are insect damaged, which are one-half the original size or less. If greater than one-half, refer to § 201.48(b) and (c) for pure seed classification. Also included as inert matter are separated cotyledons of legumes, irrespective of whether or not the radicle-plumule axis and/or more than one-half of the seed coat may be attached.
(3) Chalcid-damaged seeds (puffy, soft, or dry and crumbly) of alfalfa, red clover, crimson clover, and similar kinds of small seeded legumes. Refer to § 201.48(c) for pure seed classification.
(4) Glumes and empty florets except as stated under pure seed. Refer to
§ 201.48 (g) and (h) for pure seed classification.
(5) Seed units with nematode galls or fungal bodies (smut, ergot, and other sclerotia) that are not entirely enclosed within the seed unit. Refer to § 201.48(h) for pure seed classification.
(6) Broken seed units of Chenopodiaceae and fruit portions or fragments of monogerm beets, New Zealand spinach, buffalograss, and families in which the seed unit is a dry indehiscent one-seeded fruit that visibly do not contain a seed. Refer to § 201.48 (f), (g)(1), (i), and (j) for pure seed classification.
(7) Seed units of forage kochia that pass through a 1 mm opening, square-hole sieve, when shaken for 30 seconds.
(8) The thin pericarp (fruit wall), if present on seeds of northern sweetvetch.
(9) Immature florets of smooth brome, fairway crested wheatgrass, standard crested wheatgrass, tall wheatgrass, intermediate wheatgrass, pubescent wheatgrass, western wheatgrass, fescues (
Festuca
spp.), and ryegrasses (
Lolium
spp.) in which the caryopses are less than one-third the length of the palea; the caryopsis is measured from the base of the rachilla.
(b) Seeds and seed-like structures from weed plants, which by visual examination (including the use of light or dissection), can be determined to be within the following categories:
(1) Damaged seed (other than grasses) with over one-half of the embryo missing.
(2) Grass florets and caryopses classed as inert:
(i) Glumes and empty florets of weedy grasses;
(ii) Damaged grass caryopses, including free caryopses, with over one-half the root-shoot axis missing (the scutellum excluded);
(iii) Immature free caryopses devoid of embryo and/or endosperm;
(iv) Immature florets of quackgrass (Elymus repens) in which the caryopses are less than one-third the length of the palea. The caryopsis is measured from the base of the rachilla;
(v) Free caryopses of quackgrass (E. repens) that are 2 mm or less in length.
(3) Seeds of legumes and species of Brassica with the seed coats entirely removed.
(4) Immature seed units, devoid of both embryo and endosperm, such as occur in but not limited to the following plant families: Sedge (Cyperaceae), buckwheat (Polygonaceae), morning glory (Convolvulaceae), nightshade (Solanaceae), puncturevine (Zygophyllaceae) and sunflower (Asteraceae). Cocklebur (Xanthium spp.) burs are to be dissected to determine whether or not seeds are present.
(5) Wild onion and wild garlic (Allium spp.) bulblets:
(i) Bulblets which are completely devoid of the husk and pass through a
1/13th-inch, round-hole sieve.
(ii) Bulblets which show evident damage to the basal end, whether husk is present or absent. Refer to § 201.50(c) for wild onion and wild garlic (Allium spp.) bulblets classed as weed seeds.
(6) Dodder (Cuscuta spp.): Seeds devoid of embryos and seeds which are ashy gray to creamy white in color are inert matter. Seeds should be sectioned when necessary to determine if an embryo is present as when seeds have a normal color but are slightly swollen, dimpled or have minute holes.
(7) Buckhorn (Plantago lanceolata): Black seeds, with no brown color evident, whether shriveled or plump; the color of questionable seeds shall be determined by use of a stereoscopic microscope with magnification of approximately 10 × and a fluorescent lamp with two 15-watt daylight-type tubes.
(8) Ragweed (Ambrosia spp.): Seed with both the involucre and pericarp absent.
(c) Other matter that is not seed:
(1) Free nematode galls or fungal bodies such as smut, ergot, and other sclerotia.
(2) Soil particles, sand, stone, chaff, stems, leaves, flowers, loose coating material, and any other foreign material.
(3) Coating material removed from coated seed by washing. Refer to § 201.51b(c).
[46 FR 53637, Oct. 29, 1981; 46 FR 58059, Nov. 30, 1981, as amended at 59 FR 64498, Dec. 14, 1994; 65 FR 1707, Jan. 11, 2000; 76 FR 31794, June 2, 2011; 85 FR 40581, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.51a
Special procedures for purity analysis.
(a) The laboratory analyst shall use the Uniform Blowing Procedure described in this paragraph to separate pure seed and inert matter in the following: Kentucky bluegrass, Canada bluegrass, rough bluegrass, Pensacola variety of bahiagrass, orchardgrass, blue grama, and side-oats grama.
(1)
Separation of mixtures.
Separate seed kinds listed in this section from other kinds in mixtures before using the Uniform Blowing Procedure.
(2)
Calibration samples.
Obtain calibration samples and instructions, which are available on loan through the Seed Regulatory and Testing Division, S
T, AMS, 801 Summit Crossing Place, Suite C, Gastonia, North Carolina 28054.
(3)
Blowing point.
Use the calibration samples to establish a blowing point prior to proceeding with the separation of pure seed and inert matter for these kinds.
(i) Refer to the specifications on the calibration samples for Kentucky bluegrass, orchardgrass, and Pensacola variety of bahiagrass to determine their appropriate blowing points for the Uniform Blowing Procedure.
(ii) Use the calibration sample for Kentucky bluegrass to determine the blowing points for Canada bluegrass, rough bluegrass, blue grama, and side-oats grama.
(A) The blowing point for Canada bluegrass shall be the same as the blowing point determined for Kentucky bluegrass.
(B) The blowing point for rough bluegrass shall be a factor of 0.82 (82 percent) of the blowing point determined for Kentucky bluegrass. The 0.82 factor is restricted to the General-type seed blower.
(C) The blowing point for blue grama shall be a factor of 1.157 of the blowing point determined for Kentucky bluegrass. Before blowing, extraneous material that will interfere with the blowing process shall be removed. The sample to be blown shall be divided into four approximately equal parts and each blown separately. The 1.157 factor is restricted to the General-type seed blower.
(D) The blowing point for side-oats grama shall be a factor of 1.480 of the blowing point determined for Kentucky bluegrass. Before blowing, extraneous material that will interfere with the blowing process shall be removed. The sample to be blown shall be divided into four approximately equal parts and each part blown separately. The 1.480 factor is restricted to the General-type seed blower.
(4)
Blower calibration.
Calibrate and test the blower according to the instructions that accompany the calibration samples before using the blower to analyze the seed sample. Use the anemometer to set the blower gate opening according to the calibration sample specifications.
(i) Determine the blowing point using a calibrated anemometer.
(ii) Position the anemometer fan precisely over the blower opening, set it at
meters per second
(m/s), run the blower at the calibrated gate setting, and wait 30 seconds before reading the anemometer.
(iii) Use this anemometer reading to determine the blower gate setting whenever the Uniform Blowing Procedure is required.
(5)
Pure seed and inert matter.
Use the calibrated blower to separate the seed sample into light and heavy portions. After completing the initial separation, remove and separate all weed and other crop seeds from the light portion. The remainder of the light portion shall be considered inert matter. Remove all weed and other crop seeds and other inert matter (stems, leaves, dirt) from the heavy portion and add them to the weed seed, other crop seed, or inert matter separations, as appropriate. The remainder of the heavy portion shall be considered pure seed.
(b) The Multiple Unit Procedure of determining the pure seed fraction shall be used only for the kinds included in the following table when multiple units are present in a sample. These methods are applicable to the
kinds listed when they occur in mixtures or singly. Any single unit without attached structures, as described below, shall be considered a single unit. Multiple units and single units for the kinds listed shall remain intact. The attached glumes and fertile or sterile florets shall not be removed from the fertile floret.
(1) A multiple unit is a seed unit that includes one or more structures as follows (the length of the awn shall be disregarded when determining the length of a fertile floret or an attached structure):
(i) An attached sterile or fertile floret that extends to or beyond the tip of a fertile floret;
(ii) A fertile floret with basally attached glume, glumes, or basally attached sterile floret of any length;
(iii) A fertile floret with two or more attached sterile and/or fertile florets of any length.
(2) Procedure for determination of multiple units:
(i) For the single kind: determine the percentage of single units present, based on the total weight of single units and multiple units. Apply the appropriate factor, as determined from the following table, to the weight of the multiple units and add that portion of the multiple unit weight to the weight of the single units. The remaining multiple unit weight shall be added to the weight of the inert matter.
(ii) For mixtures that include one or more of the kinds in the following table, determine the percentage of single units, based on the total weight of single units and multiple units, for each kind. Apply the appropriate factor as determined from the following table, to the weight of multiple units of each kind.
Table of Factors To Apply to Multiple Units
a
Percent of
single units of
each kind
Crested
wheat-grass
b
Pubescent
wheat-grass
Intermediate
wheat-grass
Tall
wheat-grass
c
Western
wheat-grass
c
Smooth
brome
50 or below
70
66
72
72
50.01-55.00
72
67
74
74
55.01-60.00
73
67
75
75
60.01-65.00
74
67
76
76
65.01-70.00
75
68
77
60
78
70.01-75.00
76
68
78
66
79
75.01-80.00
77
69
79
50
67
81
80.01-85.00
78
69
80
55
68
82
85.01-90.00
79
69
81
65
70
83
90.01-100.00
79
70
82
70
74
85
a
The factors represent the percentages of the multiple unit weights which are considered pure seed. The remaining percentage is regarded as inert matter.
b
Includes both standard crested wheatgrass and fairway crested wheatgrass.
c
Dashes in table indicate that no factors are available at the levels shown.
[59 FR 64498, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 40581, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.51b
Purity procedures for coated seed.
(a) The working sample for coated seed is obtained as described in § 201.46(d) (1) and (2), and weighed in grams to four significant figures.
(b) Any loose coating material shall be sieved, weighed, and included with the inert matter component.
(c) Coating material is removed from the seed by washing with water or other solvents such as, but not limited to, dilute sodium hydroxide (NaOH). Use of fine mesh sieves is recommended for this procedure, and stirring or shaking the coated units may be necessary to obtain de-coated seed.
(d) Spread de-coated seed on blotters or filter paper in a shallow container. Air dry overnight at room temperature.
(e) Separation of component parts:
(1) Kind or variety considered pure seed.
(2) Other crop seed.
(3) Inert matter.
(4) Weed seed.
(f) The de-coated seed shall be separated into four components in accordance with §§ 201.48 through 201.51.
§§ 201.51a (a) and (b) shall not be followed. The weight of the coating material is determined by subtracting the sum of the weights of the other four components from the original weight of the working sample. The percentage of coating material shall be included with the inert matter percentage. Calculate percentages of all components based on the original weight of the working sample (see paragraph (a) of this section).
[59 FR 64499, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.52
Noxious-weed seeds.
(a) The determination of the number of seeds, bulblets, or tubers of individual noxious weeds present per unit weight should be made on at least the minimum quantities listed in § 201.46 Table 1:
Provided,
That if the following indicated numbers of a single kind of seed, bulblet, or tuber are found in the pure seed analysis (or noxious-weed seed examination of a like amount) the occurrence of that kind in the remainder of the bulk examined for noxious-weed seeds need not be noted:
1/2
-gram purity working sample, 16 or more seeds; 1-gram purity working sample, 23 or more seeds; 2-gram purity working sample or larger, 30 or more seeds. The seeds per unit weight shall be based on the number of single seeds. The number of individual seeds shall be determined in burs of sandbur (
Cenchrus
spp.) and cocklebur (
Xanthium
spp.); in capsules of dodder (
Cuscuta
spp.); in berries of groundcherry, horsenettle, and nightshade (Solanaceae); and in the fruits of other noxious weeds that contain more than one seed. Refer to §§ 201.50 and 201.51(b)(4) for the classification of weed seeds and inert matter, respectively.
(b) A noxious-weed seed examination of coated seed samples shall be made by examining approximately 25,000 units obtained in accordance with § 201.46(d) and which have been de-coated by the method described in § 201.51b(c).
[59 FR 64499, Dec. 14, 1994]

# germination tests in the administration of the act
§ 201.53
Source of seeds for germination.
(a) When both purity and germination tests are required, seeds for germination shall be taken from the separation of the kind, variety, or type considered pure seed and shall be counted without discrimination as to size or appearance.
(b) When only a germination test is required and the pure seed is estimated or determined to be at least 98 percent, the pure seed for the germination test may be taken indiscriminately from a representative portion of the bulk.
(c) When only a germination test is required and the pure seed is found to be less than 98 percent, the seed for the test shall be obtained by separating the sample into two components as follows: (1) Pure seed and (2) other crop seed, weed seed, and inert matter. In making this separation at least
1/4
of the quantity required for a regular purity analysis shall be used. The whole sample must be well mixed and divided in such a manner as to get a completely representative subsample.
[10 FR 9952, Aug. 11, 1945, as amended at 20 FR 7931, Oct. 21, 1955]
§ 201.54
Number of seeds for germination.
At least 400 seeds shall be tested for germination; except that in mixtures, 200 seeds of each of those kinds present to the extent of 15 percent or less may be used in lieu of 400, in which case an additional 2 percent is to be added to the regular germination tolerances. The seeds shall be tested in replicate tests of 100 seeds or less.
[59 FR 64500, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.55
Retests.
Retests shall be made as follows:
(a) When the range of 100-seed replicates of a given test exceeds the maximum tolerated range in the table appearing in this section.
Table of Maximum Tolerated Ranges Between 100-Seed Replicates for Use in Connection With § 201.55(A)
Average percent germinations
Maximum allowed
between replicates
4
replicates
2
replicates
99
2
5
98
3
6
97
4
7
6
96
5
8
6
95
6
9
7
94
7
10
8
93
8
10
8
92
9
11
9
91
10
11
9
90
11
12
9
89
12
12
10
88
13
13
10
87
14
13
11
86
15
14
11
85
16
14
11
84
17
14
11
83
18
15
12
82
19
15
12
81
20
15
12
80
21
16
13
79
22
16
13
78
23
16
13
77
24
17
13
76
25
17
13
75
26
17
14
74
27
17
14
73
28
17
14
72
29
18
14
71
30
18
14
70
31
18
14
69
32
18
14
68
33
18
15
67
34
18
15
66
35
19
15
65
36
19
15
64
37
19
15
63
38
19
15
62
38
19
15
61
40
19
15
60
41
19
15
59
42
19
15
58
43
19
15
57
44
19
15
56
45
19
15
55
46
20
15
54
47
20
16
53
48
20
16
52
48
20
16
51
50
20
16
(b) When at the time of the prescribed final count there are indications, such as presence of firm ungerminated seeds, that a satisfactory germination has not been obtained;
(c) When there is evidence that the results may not be reliable due to improper test conditions, errors in seedling evaluation, the presence of fungi or bacteria, or inaccuracies in counting or recording results;
(d) When a sample shows seedling injury or abnormality as a result of chemical treatment, of exposure to chemicals, or of toxicity from any source. (Retest shall be made in soil or a mixture of soil and sand);
(e) When no two satisfactory tests are within tolerance.

# Note to § 201.55:
To find the maximum tolerated range, compute the average percentage of all 100 seed replicates of a given test, rounding off the result to the nearest whole number. The germination is found in the first two columns of the table. When the differences between highest and lowest replicates do not exceed the corresponding values found in the “4 replicates” column, no additional testing is required. However, if the differences exceed the values in the “4 replicates” column, retesting is necessary.
[25 FR 8771, Sept. 13, 1960, as amended at 65 FR 1707, Jan. 11, 2000]
§ 201.55a
Moisture and aeration of substratum.
(a) The substratum must be moist enough to supply the needed moisture to the seeds at all times. Excessive moisture which will restrict aeration of the seeds should be avoided. Except as provided for those kinds of seeds requiring high moisture levels of the germination media, the substrata should never be so wet that a film of water is formed around the seeds. For most kinds of seeds blotters or other paper substrata should not be so wet that by pressing, a film of water forms around the finger.
(b) The following formula may be used as a guide in the preparation of sand for germination tests:

# [118.3 cc. (1 gill) sand/Its weight in grams] × 20.2−8.0 = The number of cc. of water to add to each 100 grams of air-dry sand.
(c) The amount of water provided by this formula is satisfactory for seeds the size of clovers and will have to be modified slightly, depending on the kind of seed being tested and the kind of sand used. For example, slightly more moisture should be added when the larger seeds are to be tested.
(d) In preparing soil tests water should be added to the soil until it can be formed into a ball when squeezed in the palm of the hand but will break
freely when pressed between two fingers. After the soil has been moistened it should be rubbed through a sieve and put in the seed containers without packing.
(e) The addition of water subsequent to placing the seed in test will depend on the evaporation from the substrata in the germination chambers. Since the rate of evaporation will depend upon the relative humidity of the air, it is desirable to keep water in the germination chambers or to provide other means of supplying a relative humidity of approximately 95 percent. Germination tests should be observed at frequent intervals to insure an adequate moisture supply of the substrata at all times.
[20 FR 7931, Oct. 21, 1955]
§ 201.56
Interpretation.
(a) A seed shall be considered to have germinated when it has developed those essential structures which, for the kind of seed under consideration, are indicative of its ability to produce a normal plant under favorable conditions. In general, the following are considered to be essential structures necessary for the continued development of the seedling (although some structures may not be visible in all kinds at the time of seedling evaluation). Seedlings possessing these essential structures are referred to as normal seedlings: Root system (consisting of primary, secondary, seminal, or adventitious roots); hypocotyl; epicotyl; cotyledon(s); terminal bud; primary leaves; and coleoptile and mesocotyl (in the grass family). Abnormal seedlings consist of those with defects to these structures, as described in the abnormal seedling descriptions, and are judged to be incapable of continued growth. The seedling descriptions assume that test conditions were adequate to allow proper assessment of the essential seedling structures.
(b) Sand and/or soil tests may be used as a guide in determining the classification of questionable seedlings and the evaluation of germination tests made on approved artificial media. This is intended to provide a method of checking the reliability of tests made on artificial substrata when there may be doubt as to the proper evaluation of such tests.
(c) Seedlings infected with fungi or bacteria should be regarded as normal if all essential structures are present. A seedling that has been seriously damaged by bacteria or fungi from any source other than the specific seed should be regarded as normal if it is determined that all essential structures were present before the injury or damage occurred. Germination counts should be made on samples where contamination and decay are present at approximately 2-day intervals between the usual first count and the final count. During the progress of the germination test, seeds which are obviously dead and moldy and which may be a source of contamination of healthy seeds should be removed at each count and the number of such dead seeds should be recorded. When symptoms of certain diseases develop which can be readily recognized and identified, their presence should be noted.
(d) Seed units containing more than one seed or embryo, such as New Zealand spinach seed, Beta seed, double fruits of the carrot family (Apiaceae), multiple seeds of burnet, and seed units of grasses consisting of multiple florets, shall be tested as a single seed and shall be regarded as having germinated if they produce one or more normal seedlings.
(e) Standard guides for seedling interpretation shall include the following descriptions for specific kinds and groups. The “General Description” for each group of crop kinds describes a seedling without defects. While such a seedling is clearly normal, seedlings with some defects may also be classified as normal, provided the defects do not impair the functioning of the structure. The “Abnormal seedling description” is to be followed when judging the severity of defects.
[20 FR 7931, Oct. 21, 1955, as amended at 25 FR 8771, Sept. 13, 1960; 59 FR 64500, Dec. 14, 1994; 85 FR 40582, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.56-1
Goosefoot family, Chenopodiaceae, and Carpetweed family, Aizoaceae.
Kinds of seed: Beet, Swiss chard, fourwing saltbush, spinach, New Zealand spinach, and forage kochia.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(2) Food reserves: Leaf-like cotyledons and perisperm.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates carrying the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(4) Root system: A primary root; secondary roots may develop within the test period.
(5) Seedling: Frequent counts should be made on multigerm beet since the growing seedlings will separate from the cluster making it difficult to identify the source. Any cluster which produces at least one normal seedling is classified as normal; only one normal seedling per cluster is to be counted (see § 201.56(d)). Toxic substances from the clusters of beet and Swiss chard may cause discoloring of the hypocotyl and/or root. Seedlings which are slightly discolored are to be classified as normal; however, if there is excessive discoloration, retest by the method in § 201.58(b)(3).
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(2) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if cotyledons are intact.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Hypocotyl:
(i) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(iii) Watery.
(4) Root:
(i) None.
(ii) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.
(iii) For discolored roots of beet and Swiss chard, see § 201.58(b)(3).
(5) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection. (For discolored seedlings of beet and Swiss chard, see § 201.58(b)(3).)
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64500, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-2
Sunflower family, Asteraceae (Compositae).
Kinds of seed: Artichoke, cardoon, chicory, dandelion, endive, great burdock, lettuce, safflower, salsify, Louisiana sagewort, and sunflower.
(a) Lettuce.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(ii) Food reserves: Cotyledons which expand and become thin, leaf-like, and photosynthetic. The cotyledons of some varieties develop elongated petioles.
(iii) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and carries the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root.
(v) Seedling: The interpretations of lettuce seedlings are made only at the end of the test period.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledons:
(A) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(B) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay. (Remove attached seed coat for evaluation of cotyledons. Physiological necrosis is manifested by discolored areas on the cotyledons and should not be confused with natural pigmentation of some lettuce varieties.)
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if cotyledons are intact.)
(B) Any degree of necrosis or decay.
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(B) Severely twisted or grainy.
(C) Watery.
(iv) Root:
(A) Stubby or missing primary root. (Secondary roots will not compensate for a defective primary root.)
(B) Primary root tip blunt, swollen, or discolored. (Toxic materials in the
substratum may cause short, blunt roots; see § 201.58(a)(9).)
(C) Primary root with splits or lesions.
(v) Seedling:
(A) Swollen cotyledons associated with extremely short or vestigial hypocotyl and root.
(B) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(C) Albino.
(b) Other kinds in the sunflower family: Artichoke, cardoon, chicory, dandelion, endive, great burdock, safflower, salsify, Louisiana sagewort, and sunflower.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(ii) Food reserves: Cotyledons which expand and become thin, leaf-like, and photosynthetic.
(iii) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and carries the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root with secondary roots usually developing within the test period.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledons:
(A) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(B) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay. (Remove any attached seed coats at the end of the test period for evaluation of cotyledons.)
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if cotyledons are intact.)
(B) [Reserved]
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(B) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(C) Watery.
(iv) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots. (Seedlings with roots bound within tough seed coats should be left in the test until the final count to allow for development.)
(v) Seedling:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(B) Albino.
[59 FR 64500, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-3
Mustard family, Brassicaceae (Cruciferae).
Kinds of seed: Broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbage, Chinese cabbage, cauliflower, collards, garden cress, upland cress, water cress, kale, Chinese kale, Siberian kale, kohlrabi, mustard, pakchoi, radish, rape, rutabaga, and turnip.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons which expand and become thin, leaf-like and photosynthetic. In
Brassica, Sinapis,
and
Raphanus,
the cotyledons are bi-lobed and folded, with the outer cotyledon being larger than the inner.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and carries the cotyledons above the soil surface; the epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(4) Root system: A long primary root.
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Decayed at point of attachment.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(iii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(2) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if the cotyledons are intact.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Hypocotyl:
(i) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(iii) Watery.
(4) Root:
(i) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root. (Secondary roots will not compensate for a defective root.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(5) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as result of decay from primary infection.
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64501, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-4
Cucurbit family, (Cucurbitaceae).
Kinds of seed: Citron, cucumber, West India gherkin, melon, pumpkin, squash, and watermelon.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons which are large and fleshy; they expand, become photosynthetic, and usually persist beyond the seedling stage.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and the cotyledons are pulled free of the seed coat, which often adheres to a peg-like appendage at the base of the hypocotyl. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(4) Root system: A long primary root with numerous secondary roots.
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay. (Remove any attached seed coats at the end of the test period for evaluation of cotyledons.)
(2) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if the cotyledons are intact.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Hypocotyl:
(i) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(4) Root:
(i) None.
(ii) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root, with less than two strong secondary or adventitious roots.
(5) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64501, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-5
Grass family, Poaceae (Gramineae).
Kinds of seed: Bentgrasses, bluegrasses, bluestems, bromes, cereals, fescues, millets, orchardgrass, redtop, ryegrasses, sorghums, timothy, turf timothy, wheatgrasses, and all other grasses listed in § 201.2(h).
(a) Cereals: Agrotricum, barley, oat, rye, mountain rye, wheat, wheat × agrotricum, and triticale.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Hypogeal monocot.
(ii) Food reserves: Endosperm. The scutellum is a modified cotyledon which is in direct contact with the endosperm. During germination the scutellum remains inside the seed to absorb nutrients from the endosperm and transfer them to the growing seedling.
(iii) Shoot system: The shoot consists of the coleoptile, leaves enclosed in the coleoptile, and the mesocotyl. The coleoptile elongates and pushes through the soil surface; the mesocotyl may elongate depending on the variety and light intensity, but may not be discernible. Splitting of the coleoptile occurs naturally as a result of growth and emergence of the leaves.
(iv) Root system: A primary root and seminal roots. The primary root is not readily distinguishable from the seminal roots; therefore, all roots arising from the seed are referred to as seminal roots.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Shoot:
(A) Missing.
(B) No leaf.
(C) Leaf extending less than halfway up into the coleoptile.
(D) Leaf extensively shredded or split.
(E) Spindly or watery.
(F) Grainy, spirally twisted, shredded, and weak.
(G) Deep open cracks in the mesocotyl.
(ii) Root:
(A) Less than one strong seminal root.
(B) [Reserved]
(iii) Seedling:
(A) Decayed at point of attachment to the scutellum.
(B) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(C) Albino.
(D) Endosperm obviously detached from the root-shoot axis (e.g. kernel lifted away by the growing shoot).
(E) Thickened and shortened roots and/or shoots.
(b) Rice.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Hypogeal monocot.
(ii) Food reserves: Endosperm. The scutellum is a modified cotyledon which is in direct contact with the endosperm. During germination the scutellum remains inside the seed to absorb nutrients from the endosperm and transfer them to the growing seedling.
(iii) Shoot system: The shoot consists of the coleoptile, leaves enclosed in the coleoptile, and the mesocotyl. The coleoptile elongates and pushes through the soil or water surface; the mesocotyl may elongate depending on the variety and environmental conditions. Splitting of the coleoptile occurs naturally as a result of growth and emergence of the leaves.
(iv) Root system: Strong primary root and seminal roots. Adventitious roots may start to develop from the mesocotyl or coleoptilar node within the test period. If the mesocotyl elongates, the adventitious roots will be carried above the grain.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Shoot:
(A) Missing.
(B) No leaf.
(C) Leaf extending less than halfway up into the coleoptile.
(D) Leaf extensively shredded or split.
(E) Spindly or watery.
(F) Deep open cracks in the mesocotyl.
(ii) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Weak primary root with insufficient seminal or adventitious roots.
(iii) Seedling:
(A) Decayed at point of attachment to the scutellum.
(B) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(C) Albino.
(c) Corn.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Hypogeal monocot.
(ii) Food reserves: Endosperm. The scutellum is a modified cotyledon which is in direct contact with the endosperm. During germination the scutellum remains inside the seed to absorb nutrients from the endosperm and transfer them to the growing seedling.
(iii) Shoot system: The shoot consists of the coleoptile, leaves enclosed in the coleoptile, and the mesocotyl. The coleoptile elongates and pushes through the soil surface. The mesocotyl usually elongates. Splitting of the coleoptile occurs naturally as a result of growth and emergence of the leaves. A twisted and curled shoot bound by a tough seed coat may be considered normal, provided the shoot is not decayed.
(iv) Root system: Strong primary root and seminal roots. Adventitious roots may start to develop from the mesocotyl or coleoptilar node within the test period.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Shoot:
(A) Missing.
(B) Thickened and shortened.
(C) No leaf.
(D) Leaf extending less than halfway up into the coleoptile.
(E) Leaf extensively shredded or split.
(F) Spindly or watery.
(G) Deep open cracks in the mesocotyl.
(ii) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak seminal roots.
(iii) Seedling:
(A) Decayed at point of attachment to the scutellum.
(B) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(C) Albino.
(d) Johnsongrass, sorghum, sorgrass, sorghum almum, sudangrass, and sorghum-sudangrass.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Hypogeal monocot.
(ii) Food reserves: Endosperm. The scutellum is a modified cotyledon which is in direct contact with endosperm. During germination the scutellum remains inside the seed to absorb nutrients from the endosperm and transfer them to the growing seedling.
(iii) Shoot system: The shoot consists of the coleoptile, leaves enclosed in the coleoptile, and the mesocotyl. The coleoptile elongates and pushes through the soil surface; the mesocotyl usually elongates. Areas of natural, reddish pigmentation may develop on the mesocotyl and coleoptile. Splitting of the coleoptile occurs naturally as a result of growth and emergence of the leaves.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root, usually with secondary roots developing within the test period. Adventitious roots may start to develop from the mesocotyl or coleoptilar node within the test period. Areas of natural, reddish pigmentation may develop on the root.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Shoot:
(A) Missing.
(B) Thickened and shortened.
(C) No leaf.
(D) Leaf extending less than halfway up into the coleoptile.
(E) Leaf extensively shredded or split.
(F) Spindly or watery.
(G) Deep open cracks in the mesocotyl.
(ii) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Damaged or weak primary root with less than two strong secondary roots.
(iii) Seedling:
(A) Decayed at point of attachment to the scutellum.
(B) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(C) Albino.
(e) Grasses and millets.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Hypogeal monocot.
(ii) Food reserves: Endosperm. The scutellum is a modified cotyledon which is in direct contact with the endosperm. During germination the scutellum remains inside the seed to absorb nutrients from the endosperm and transfer them to the growing seedling.
(iii) Shoot system: The shoot consists of the coleoptile, leaves enclosed in the coleoptile, and the mesocotyl. The coleoptile elongates and pushes through the soil surface. The mesocotyl may or may not elongate significantly, depending on the kind. Splitting of the coleoptile occurs naturally as a result of growth and emergence of the leaves.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root. Secondary or adventitious roots may develop within the test period. In certain kinds (e.g. bermudagrass) the primary root may not be readily visible because it is coiled inside the tightly fitting lemma and palea. At the time of evaluation, the glumes should be removed and the root observed. Such seedlings are classified as normal if the primary root has developed. For Kentucky bluegrass, a primary root
1/16
inch (1.6 mm) or more in length is classified as normal.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Shoot:
(A) Missing.
(B) Short, thick, and grainy.
(C) No leaf.
(D) Leaf extending less than halfway up into the coleoptile.
(E) Leaf extensively shredded or split.
(F) Spindly or watery.
(G) Deep open cracks in the mesocotyl.
(ii) Root:
(A) Missing or defective primary root even if other roots are present.
(B) Spindly, stubby, or watery primary root.
(iii) Seedling:
(A) Decayed at point of attachment to the scutellum.
(B) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(C) Albino.
(D) Yellow (when grown in light).
(E) Endosperm obviously detached from the root-shoot axis (e.g. kernel lifted away by the growing shoot).
[59 FR 64501, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 1708, Jan. 11, 2000]
§ 201.56-6
Legume or pea family, Fabaceae (Leguminosae).
Kinds of seed: Alfalfa, alyceclover, asparagusbean, beans (
Phaseolus
spp.), Florida beggarweed, black medic, broadbean, burclovers, buttonclover, chickpea, clovers (
Trifolium
spp.), cowpea, crotalarias, crownvetch, guar,
hairy indigo, kudzu, lentil, lespedezas, lupines, northern sweetvetch, peas, peanut, roughpea, sainfoin, sesbania, sourclover, soybean, sweetclovers, trefoils, velvetbean, and vetches.
(a) Field bean, garden bean, lima bean, mung bean, asparagusbean, and cowpea.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(ii) Food reserves: Cotyledons which are large and fleshy.
(iii) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and carries the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl elongates, causing the terminal bud to emerge from between the cotyledons; the primary leaves expand rapidly.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root with secondary roots.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledons:
(A) For garden bean (
Phaseolus vulgaris
in part), remove any attached seed coats at the end of the test period for evaluation of cotyledons:
(
1
) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(
2
) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(B) All other kinds:
(
1
) Both missing and the seedling generally weak.
(
2
) [Reserved]
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing.
(B) Deep open cracks.
(C) Malformed, such as markedly curled or thickened.
(D) Less than one primary leaf.
(E) Primary leaves too small in proportion to the rest of the seedling, usually associated with visible defects of, or damage to, the main stem of the epicotyl.
(F) Terminal bud missing or damaged. (If a few seedlings with total or partial decay to the epicotyl are found, they may be classified as normal, provided the hypocotyl and root are normal. The epicotyl on such seedlings usually does not decay when grown in a fairly dry environment and exposed to light. A retest, preferably in soil or sand, will aid in interpretation of such seedlings.)
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue. (A healed break, sometimes referred to as a “knee,” is considered normal.)
(B) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened. (Hypocotyl stunting or curling may be caused by seedling orientation or constriction on or in the substratum.) (Hypocotyl collar rot is the breakdown of hypocotyl tissue initially characterized by a watery appearance and collapse of the hypocotyl below the cotyledonary node. The area later becomes discolored, shrivelled, and necrotic. The condition is caused by insufficient calcium available to the seedling. If hypocotyl collar rot is observed on seedlings of garden bean, the sample involved shall be retested in accordance with § 201.58(b)(12).)
(iv) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots. (A root bound within a tough seed coat is considered normal.)
(v) Seedling:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as the result of decay from primary infection. (Secondary infection is common in towel and blotter tests. Some pathogens, such as
Fusarium, Phomopsis,
and
Rhizoctonia,
can spread through the substratum and infect seedlings some distance away from the primary source. Seedlings with secondary infection are to be classified as normal. A retest in sand or soil may be advisable.)
(B) Albino.
(b) Adzuki bean, broadbean, chickpea, field pea, lentil, pea, roughpea, runner bean, velvetbean, and vetches.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Hypogeal dicot.
(ii) Food reserves: Cotyledons which are large and fleshy, and remain enclosed within the seed coat beneath the soil surface. They are usually not photosynthetic.
(iii) Shoot system: The epicotyl elongates and carries the terminal bud and primary leaves above the soil surface. The stem bears one or more scale leaves and, prior to emergence, is arched near the apex, causing the terminal bud to be pulled through the soil; after emergence, the stem
straightens. For practical purposes, the hypocotyl is not discernible and is not an evaluation factor. Buds in the axils of each cotyledon and scale leaf usually remain dormant unless the terminal bud is seriously damaged. In this case, one or more axillary buds may start to develop into a shoot. If the axillary shoot is well-developed, it may be considered normal.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root with secondary roots.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledons:
(A) Less than half of the original tissue remaining attached.
(B) Less than half of the original tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing.
(B) Less than one primary leaf.
(C) Malformed such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(D) Severely damaged (e.g. terminal bud missing or damaged) with only a weak shoot developing from the axil of a cotyledon or scale leaf.
(E) Two weak and spindly shoots.
(F) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(iii) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary roots.
(iv) Seedlings:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection. (Secondary infection is common in towel and blotter tests. Some pathogens can spread through the substratum and infect seedlings some distance away from the primary source. Seedlings with secondary infection are classified as normal. A retest in sand or soil may be advisable.)
(B) Albino.
(c) Soybean and lupine.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(ii) Food reserves: Cotyledons, which are large and fleshy; they expand and become photosynthetic.
(iii) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and carries the cotyledons above the soil surface. The primary leaves usually increase in size and the epicotyl may elongate within the test period.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root with secondary roots.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledons:
(A) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(B) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing.
(B) Less than one primary leaf.
(C) Deep open cracks.
(D) Terminal bud damaged, missing, or decayed. (If a few seedlings with partial decay of the epicotyl are found, they may be classified as normal, provided the hypocotyl and root are normal. The epicotyl on such seedlings usually does not decay when grown in a fairly dry environment and is exposed to light. A retest, preferably in soil or sand, will aid in interpretation of such seedlings.)
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue. (Adventitious roots may occur at the site of injury, particularly on the hypocotyl and near the base of the cotyledons. The seedling is classified as normal if the injury is healed over and other essential structures are normal.)
(B) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened. (Hypocotyl development is slow until the roots start functioning. Caution should be exercised to ensure slow seedlings are not classified as abnormal. Hypocotyl stunting or curling also may be caused by seedling orientation or constriction on or in the substratum.)
(iv) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots. (Roots of seedlings on “Kimpak” with insufficient moisture may not become established and hypocotyl elongation may appear to be abnormal. There may be curling of the root and hypocotyl. When a number of seedlings are observed with this condition, the sample should be retested.)
(v) Seedlings:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection. (Secondary infection is common in towel and blotter tests.
Some pathogens, such as
Fusarium, Phomopsis,
and
Rhizoctonia,
can spread through the substratum and infect seedlings some distance away from the primary source. Seedlings with secondary infection are to be classified as normal. A retest in sand or soil may be advisable.)
(B) Albino.
(d) Peanut.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(ii) Food reserves: Cotyledons, which are large and fleshy.
(iii) Shoot system: The cotyledons are carried to the soil surface by the hypocotyl which is very thick, narrowing abruptly at the root. Elongation of the hypocotyl stops when the epicotyl is exposed to light at the soil surface. The primary leaves are compound and usually expand during the test period.
(iv) Root system: A long primary root with secondary roots. Adventitious roots develop from the base of the hypocotyl if the primary root is damaged.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledons:
(A) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(B) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing.
(B) Less than one primary leaf.
(C) Deep open cracks.
(D) Terminal bud damaged, missing, or decayed.
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(B) Malformed, such as markedly shortened or curled. (Hypocotyls remain somewhat thickened and may appear to be stunted. Light, depth of planting, and substratum moisture all contribute to the length of the hypocotyl. Hypocotyl stunting or curling may be caused by seedling orientation or constriction in the substratum. Seedlings planted in a soil test with the radicle too close to the surface may send roots above the soil and appear to exhibit negative geotropism and a distorted, U-shaped hypocotyl.
(iv) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.
(v) Seedling:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of primary infection.
(B) Albino.
(e) Alfalfa, alyceclover, Florida beggarweed, black medic, burclovers, buttonclover, milkvetch, clovers, crotalarias, crownvetch, guar, hairy indigo, kudzu, lespedezas, northern sweetvetch, sainfoin, sesbania, sourclover, sweetclovers, and trefoils.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(ii) Food reserve: Cotyledons, which are small and fleshy; they expand and become photosynthetic. The cotyledons of sub clover develop elongated petioles.
(iii) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and carries the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(iv) Root system: A long, tapering primary root, usually with root hairs. Secondary roots may or may not develop within the test period, depending on the kind.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledons:
(A) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached. (Breaks at the point of attachment of the cotyledons to the hypocotyl are common in seeds which have been mechanically damaged. It is important that seedlings not be removed during preliminary counts unless development is sufficient to allow the conditions of the cotyledons to be determined. If the point of attachment of the cotyledons cannot be seen at the end of the test, the seed coat should be peeled back to determine whether a break has occurred.)
(B) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if both cotyledons are intact.)
(B) [Reserved]
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(B) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened. (Seedlings of sainfoin which have been constricted by growing through the netting of the pod, but which are otherwise normal, are classified as normal.)
(C) Weak and watery.
(iv) Root:
(A) None.
(B) Primary root stubby. (The roots of sweetclovers may be stubby when grown on artificial substrata due to the presence of coumarin in the seed; since this condition usually does not occur in soil, such seedlings are classified as normal. Roots may appear stubby as a result of being bound by the seed coat; such seedlings are classified as normal. Crownvetch produces phytotoxic effects similar to sweetclovers.)
(C) Split extending into the hypocotyl.
(v) Seedling:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(B) Albino.
[59 FR 64503, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 1708, Jan. 11, 2000]
§ 201.56-7
Lily family, Liliaceae.
Kinds of seed: Asparagus, chives, leek, onion, and Welsh onion.
(a) Asparagus.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Hypogeal monocot.
(ii) Food reserves: Endosperm which is hard, semi- transparent, and non-starchy; minor reserves in the cotyledon. The endosperm surrounds the entire embryo.
(iii) Cotyledon: A single cylindrical cotyledon; following germination, all but the basal end remains embedded in the endosperm to absorb nutrients.
(iv) Shoot system: The epicotyl elongates and carries the terminal bud above the soil surface. The epicotyl may bear several small scale leaves. A short hypocotyl is barely distinguishable, joining the root to the basal end of the cotyledon. More than one shoot may arise simultaneously, and the seedling may be considered normal if at least one shoot is well- developed and has a terminal growing point, provided other essential structures are normal.
(v) Root system: A long slender primary root.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledon:
(A) Detached from seedling.
(B) Deep open cracks at basal end.
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Missing.
(B) Terminal bud missing or damaged.
(C) Deep open cracks.
(D) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(E) Spindly.
(F) Watery.
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Deep open cracks.
(B) [Reserved]
(iv) Root:
(A) No primary root.
(B) Stubby primary root with weak secondary roots.
(v) Seedling:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(B) Albino.
(b) Chives, leek, onion, Welsh onion.
(1) General description.
(i) Germination habit: Epigeal monocot.
(ii) Food reserves: Endosperm which is hard, semi-transparent, and non-starchy; minor reserves in the cotyledon.
(iii) Cotyledon: A single cylindrical cotyledon. The cotyledon emerges with the seed coat and endosperm attached to the tip. A sharp bend known as the “knee” forms; continued elongation of the cotyledon on each side of this knee pushes it above the soil surface. The cotyledon tip is pulled from the soil and straightens except for a slight kink which remains at the site of the knee.
(iv) Shoot system: The first foliage leaf emerges through a slit near the base of the cotyledon, but this does not usually occur during the test period. The hypocotyl is a very short transitional zone between the primary root and the cotyledon, and is not distinguishable for purposes of seedling evaluation.
(v) Root system: A long slender primary root with adventitious roots developing from the hypocotyl. The primary root does not develop secondary roots.
(2) Abnormal seedling description.
(i) Cotyledon:
(A) Short and thick.
(B) Without a definite bend or “knee”.
(C) Spindly or watery.
(ii) Epicotyl:
(A) Not observed during the test period.
(B) [Reserved]
(iii) Hypocotyl:
(A) Not evaluated.
(B) [Reserved]
(iv) Root:
(A) No primary root.
(B) Short, weak, or stubby primary root.
(v) Seedling:
(A) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(B) Albino.
[59 FR 64504, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-8
Flax family, Linaceae.
Kind of seed: Flax.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot. (Due to the mucilaginous nature of the seed coat, seedlings germinated on blotters may adhere to the blotter and appear to be negatively geotropic.)
(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons which expand and become photosynthetic.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates carrying the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(4) Root system: A primary root, with secondary roots usually developing within the test period.
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(2) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if cotyledons are intact.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Hypocotyl:
(i) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(4) Root:
(i) None.
(ii) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.
(5) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64505 Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-9
Mallow family, Malvaceae.
Kinds of seed: Cotton, kenaf, and okra.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(2) Food reserve: Cotyledons, which are convoluted in the seed; they expand and become thin, leaf-like, and photosynthetic.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates carrying the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period. Areas of yellowish pigmentation may develop on the hypocotyl in cotton.
(4) Root system: A primary root, with secondary roots usually developing within the test period. Areas of yellowish pigmentation may develop on the root in cotton.
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay. (Remove any attached seed coats at the end of the test period for evaluation of cotyledons.)
(2) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if both cotyledons are intact.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Hypocotyl:
(i) Deep open cracks or grainy lesions extending into the conducting tissue.
(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(4) Root:
(i) None.
(ii) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.
(5) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection. (A cotton seedling with yellowish areas on the root or hypocotyl is classified as normal, provided the cotyledons are free of infection.)
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64505 Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-10
Spurge family, Euphorbiaceae.
Kind of seed: Castorbean.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons, which are thin and leaf-like; endosperm (fleshy food-storage organs) usually persisting in the laboratory test.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl lengthens, carrying the cotyledons, endosperm, and epicotyl above the soil surface.
(4) Root system: A primary root, with secondary roots usually developing within the test period.
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(2) Endosperm:
(i) Missing.
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing.
(ii) Damaged or missing terminal bud.
(4) Hypocotyl:
(i) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(5) Root:
(i) None.
(ii) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.
(6) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64505 Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-11
Knotweed family, Polygonaceae.
Kinds of seed: Buckwheat, rhubarb, and sorrel.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons, starchy endosperm.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates carrying the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(4) Root system: A primary root, with secondary roots developing within the test period for some kinds.
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(2) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if cotyledons are intact.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Hypocotyl:
(i) Deep open cracks or grainy lesions extending into the conducting tissue.
(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(iii) Watery.
(4) Root:
(i) None.
(ii) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.
(5) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64506, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.56-12
Miscellaneous plant families.
Kinds of seed by family:
Carrot family, Apiaceae (Umbelliferae)—carrot, celery, celeriac, dill, parsley, parsnip;
Hemp family, Cannabaceae—hemp;
Dichondra family, Dichondraceae—dichondra;
Geranium family, Geraniaceae—alfilaria;
Mint family, Lamiaceae (Labiatae)—sage, summer savory; benne family, Pedaliaceae—sesame;
Rose family, Rosaceae—little burnet;
Nightshade family, Solanaceae—eggplant, tomato, husk tomato, pepper, tobacco; and
Valerian family, Valerianaceae—cornsalad.
(a) General description.
(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.
(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons; endosperm may or may not be present, depending on the kind.
(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates, carrying the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.
(4) Root system: A primary root; secondary roots may or may not develop within the test period, depending on the kind.
(b) Abnormal seedling description.
(1) Cotyledons:
(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.
(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.
(2) Epicotyl:
(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if the cotyledons are intact.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Hypocotyl:
(i) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.
(ii) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.
(iii) Watery.
(4) Root:
(i) None.
(ii) Missing or stubby primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.
(5) Seedling:
(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.
(ii) Albino.
[59 FR 64506, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.57
Hard seeds.
Seeds which remain hard at the end of the prescribed test because they have not absorbed water, due to an impermeable seed coat, are to be counted as “hard seed.” If at the end of the germination period provided for legumes, okra, cotton and dichondra in these rules and regulations there are still present swollen seeds or seeds of these kinds which have just started to germinate, all seeds or seedlings except the above-stated shall be removed and the test continued for 5 additional days and the normal seedlings included in the percentage of germination. For flatpea, continue the swollen seed in test for 14 days when germinating at 15-25 °C or for 10 days when germinating at 20 °C.
[5 FR 33, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 10 FR 9952, Aug. 11, 1945; 20 FR 7936, Oct. 21, 1955; 65 FR 1708, Jan. 11, 2000]
§ 201.57a
Dormant seeds.
Dormant seeds are viable seeds, other than hard seeds, which fail to germinate when provided the specified germination conditions for the kind of seed in question.
(a) Viability of ungerminated seeds shall be determined by any of the following methods or combinations of methods: a cutting test, tetrazolium test, scarification, or application of germination promoting chemicals.
(b) The percentage of dormant seed, if present, shall be determined in addition to the percentage of germination for the following kinds: Bahiagrass, basin wildrye, big bluestem, little bluestem, sand bluestem, yellow bluestem, bottlebrush-squirreltail, buffalograss, buffelgrass, galletagrass, forage kochia, blue grama, side-oats grama, Indian ricegrass, johnsongrass, sand lovegrass, weeping lovegrass, mountain rye, sand dropseed, smilo, switchgrass, veldtgrass, western wheatgrass, and yellow indiangrass.
(c) For green needlegrass, if the test result of method 2 is less than the result of method 1, subtract the result of method 2 from method 1 and report the difference as the percentage of dormant seed. Refer to § 201.58(b)(7).
[46 FR 53638, Oct. 29, 1981, as amended at 59 FR 64506, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.58
Substrata, temperature, duration of test, and certain other specific directions for testing for germination and hard seed.
Specific germination requirements are set forth in table 2 to which the following paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) are applicable.
(a)
Definitions and explainations applicable to table 2
—(1)
Duration of tests.
The following deviations are permitted from the specified duration of tests:
Any test may be terminated prior to the number of days listed under “Final count” if the maximum germination of the sample has then been determined. The number of days stated for the first count is approximate and a deviation of 1 to 3 days is permitted. If at the time of the prescribed test period the seedlings are not sufficiently developed for positive evaluation, it is possible to extend the time of the test period two additional days. If the prescribed test period or the allowed extension falls on a weekend or public holiday, the test may be extended to the next working day. (Also, see paragraph (a)(5) of this section and § 201.57.)
(2)
Light.
Cool white fluorescent light shall be provided where light is required in table 2. The light intensity shall be 75 to 125 foot-candles (750-1,250 lux). (The light intensity for nondormant seed and during seedling development may be as low as 25 foot-candles to enable the essential structures to be evaluated with greater certainty.) The seeds shall be illuminated for at least 8 hours every 24 hours except when transferred to a low temperature germinator during the weekend. When seeds are germinated at alternating temperatures they shall be illuminated during high temperature periods. Seeds for which light is prescribed shall be germinated on top of the substratum except for ryegrass fluorescence tests.
(3)
Moisture-on-dry-side.
This term means that the moistened substratum should be pressed against a dry absorbent surface such as a dry paper towel or blotter to remove excess moisture. The moisture content thus obtained should be maintained throughout the germination test period.
(4)
Potassium nitrate
(KNO
3
). These terms mean a two-tenths (0.2) percent solution of potassium nitrate (KNO
3
) shall be used in moistening the substratum. Such solution is prepared by dissolving 2 grams of KNO
3
in 1,000 ml. of distilled water. The grade of the potassium nitrate shall meet A.C.S. specifications.
(5)
Prechill.
The term “prechill” means a cold, moist treatment applied to seeds to overcome dormancy prior to the germination test. The prechill method varies among kinds, but is usually performed by holding imbibed seeds at a low temperature for a specified period of time. The prechill period is not included in the duration of tests given in table 2, unless otherwise specified.
(6)
Predry.
The term “predry” means to place the seed in a shallow layer at a temperature of 35° to 40 °C. for a period of 5 to 7 days, with provisions for circulation of the air.
(7)
Substrata
(
Kinds
). The symbols used for substrata are:
B = between blotters
TB = top of blotters
T = paper toweling, used either as folded towel tests or as roll towel tests in horizontal or vertical position
S = sand or soil where soil is an artificial planting mix of shredded peat moss, vermiculite, and perlite
TS = top of sand or soil
P = covered Petri dishes: with two layers of blotters; with one layer of absorbent cotton; with five layers of paper toweling; with three thicknesses of filter paper; or with sand or soil
C = creped cellulose paper wadding (0.3-inch thick Kimpak or equivalent) covered with a single thickness of blotter through which holes are punched for the seed that are pressed for about one-half their thickness into the paper wadding
TC = on top of creped cellulose paper without a blotter
RB = blotters with raised covers, prepared by folding up the edges of the blotter to form a good support for the upper fold which serves as a cover, preventing the top from making direct contact with the seeds.
(8)
Temperature.
A single numeral indicates a constant temperature. Two numerals separated by a dash indicate an alternation of temperature, the test to be held at the first temperature for approximately 16 hours and at the second temperature for approximately 8 hours per day. The temperature shall be determined at the substratum level and shall be as uniform as possible throughout the germination chamber. (A sharp alternation of temperature, such as obtained by hand transfer, may be beneficial in breaking dormancy.) If tests are not subjected to alternating temperatures over weekends and on holidays, they are to be held at the first-mentioned temperature during this time. In cases where two temperatures are indicated (separated by a semicolon) the first temperature shall
be regarded as the regular method and the second as an alternate method.
(9) Paper substrata must be free of chemicals toxic to germinating seed and seedling growth. If root injury occurs from toxicity of a paper substratum or from the use of potassium nitrate, retests shall be made on soil or on a substratum moistened with water.
(10)
Ethephon.
This term means a 29 parts per million (0.0029 percent) solution of ethephon [(2-chloroethyl) phosphonic acid] which shall be used to moisten the substratum. This solution is prepared by mixing 0.6 ml of a stock solution with 5,000 ml of distilled water. The stock solution contains 24 grams of active material per 100 ml of propylene glycol or two pounds of active material per gallon. A solution which is five times this concentration (5 × 29 ppm) may be used for extremely dormant seeds, provided seeds are transferred to substratum moistened with water after 1 to 3 days.
(11)
Ethylene.
This term means that five (5) ml of ethylene gas per cubic foot (176.57 ml/m
3
) of germinator space is injected into a germinator in which peanut seeds in moist rolled towels have been placed. Following injection of the ethylene, the germinator is kept closed until the first count (5 days). If the germinator door is opened for the purpose of checking or rewetting the samples, another injection of ethylene at the same rate shall be made.
(b)
Special procedures and alternate methods for germination referred to in table 2
—(1)
Alyceclover; swollen seeds.
At the conclusion of the 21-day test period, carefully pierce the seed coat with a sharp instrument and continue the test for 5 additional days. Alternate method: The swollen seeds may be placed at 20 °C for 48 hours and then at 35 °C for 3 additional days.
(2)
Bahiagrass; removal of glumes.
On all varieties except “Pensacola,” remove the enclosing structures (glumes, lemma, and palea) from the caryopsis with the aid of a sharp scalpel. If the seed is fresh or dormant, lightly scratch the surface of the caryopsis.
(3)
Beet, Swiss chard; preparation of seed for test.
Before the seeds are placed on the germination substratum, they shall be soaked in water for 2 hours, using at least 250 ml of water per 100 seeds, then washed in running water and the excess water blotted off. The temperature of the soaking and washing water should be no lower than 20 °C. Samples producing excessive discoloration of the hypocotyl or root should be retested in soil or by washing in running water for 3 hours and testing on “Kimpak,” keeping the seed covered with slightly moist blotters. Sugar beets may require 16 hours soaking in water at 25 °C, followed by rinsing and then drying for 2 hours at room temperature.
(4)
Buffelgrass; alternate method for dormant seed.
The caryopses shall be removed from the fascicles and placed on blotters moistened with a 0.2 percent solution of KNO
3
, in petri dishes. The seeds from a fascicle should be arranged so they will not be confused with seeds from other fascicles during the test. The seeds are then prechilled at 5 °C for 7 days and tested at 30 °C in light for 21 additional days. Firm ungerminated seeds remaining at the conclusion of the test should be scratched lightly and left in test for 7 additional days.
(5)
Cotton (Gossypium spp.); dormant samples.
Samples of cottonseed which do not respond to the usual method should be placed in a closed container with water and shaken until the lint is thoroughly wet. The excess moisture should then be blotted off.
(6)
Endive (Cichorium endivia); dormant samples.
Add about
1/8
inch of tap water at the beginning of the test and remove excess water after 24 hours.
(7)
Green needlegrass
; two test methods as prescribed in table 2 shall be used on each sample:
(i) For method 1, acid scarify 400 seeds for 10 minutes in concentrated sulfuric acid (95 to 98 percent H
2
SO
4
). Rinse seeds and dry on blotters for 16 hours, then place seeds on blotters moistened with a solution of 0.055 percent (500 ppm gibberellic acid GA
3
) and 0.46 percent (3,000 ppm) thiram and germinate 14 days.
(ii) For method 2, plant 400 seeds on blotters moistened with a 0.2 percent solution of KNO
3
and germinate 14 days. Refer to § 201.57a(c).
(iii) Report the results of method 2 as the percentage germination. If the
number in method 2 is less than method 1, subtract the results of method 2 from method 1 and report the difference as dormant seed.
(8)
Rescue grass
(
Bromus catharticus
)
; dormant samples.
Wash for 48 hours in running water, or soak for 48 hours, changing the water and rinsing each morning and night.
(9)
Rice
(
Oryza sativa
)—
Alternate method.
Plant the seeds in moist sand. On the seventh day of the test add water to a depth of one-fourth inch above the sand level and leave for the remainder of the test. Only a final count is made. Dormant seeds: Presoak 24 to 48 hours in 40 °C. water. For deeply dormant seeds, presoak 24 hours in 1,000 p.p.m. ethylene chlorohydrin or 5 percent solution of sodium hypochlorite (clorox at bottle strength).
(10)
Ryegrass; fluorescence test.
The germination test for fluorescence of ryegrass shall be conducted in light [not to exceed 100 foot candles (1,076 lux)] with white filter paper as the substratum. The white filter paper should be nontoxic to the roots of ryegrass and of a texture that will resist penetration of ryegrass roots. Distilled or deionized water shall be used to moisten the filter paper. The test shall be conducted in a manner that will prevent the contact of roots of different seedlings. Roots of some seedlings produce fluorescent lines on white filter paper when viewed under ultraviolet light. First counts shall not be made before the eighth day; at that time remove only normal fluorescent seedlings. Evaluation of fluorescence shall be made under F15T8-BLB or comparable ultraviolet tubes in an area where light from other sources is excluded. If there are over 75 percent normal fluorescent seedlings present at the time of the first count, break the contact of the roots of the nonfluorescent seedlings from the substratum and reread the fluorescence at the time of the final count. At the final count, lift each remaining seedling, observing the path of each root since sometimes faint fluorescence will show on the substratum as the root is lifted. Abnormal seedlings and dead seeds are not evaluated for fluorescence. See § 201.58a(a).
(11)
Trifolium, Medicago, Melilotus, and Vicia faba; temperature requirements.
A temperature of 18 °C. is desirable for
Trifolium
spp.,
Medicago
spp.,
Melilotus
spp., and
Vicia faba.
(12)
Garden bean; use of calcium nitrate.
If hypocotyl collar rot is observed on seedlings, the sample involved shall be retested using a 0.3 to 0.6 percent solution of calcium nitrate (CaNO
3
) to moisten the substratum.
(13)
Fourwing Saltbush (Atriplex canscens); preparation of seed for test.
De-wing seeds and soak for 2 hours in 3 liters of water, after which rinse with approximately 3 liters of distilled water. Remove excess water, air dry for 7 days at room temperature, then test for germination as indicated in Table 2.
(c)
Procedures for coated seed.
(1) Germination tests on coated seed shall be conducted in accordance with methods in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. However, kinds for which soaking or washing is specified in paragraph (b) shall not be soaked or washed in the case of coated seed.
(i) Coated seed units shall be placed on the substratum in the condition in which they are received without rinsing, soaking, or any other pretreatment.
(ii) Coated seed units in mixtures which are color coded or can otherwise be separated by kinds shall be germinated as separate kinds without removing the coating material.
(iii) Coated seed units in mixtures which cannot be separated by kinds without removing the coating material shall be de-coated and germinated as separate kinds. The coating material shall be removed in a manner that will not affect the germination capacity of the seeds.
(2) The moisture level of the substratum is important. It may depend on the water-absorbing capacity of the coating material. A retest may be necessary before satisfactory germination of the sample is achieved.
(3) Phytotoxic symptoms may be evident when germinating coated seeds in paper substrata. In such cases a retest in sand or soil may be necessary.
Table 2—Germination Requirements for Indicated Kinds
Name of seed
Substrata
Temperature (°C)
First count days
Final count days
Additional directions
Specific requirements
Fresh and dormant seed
AGRICULTURAL SEED
Agrotricum
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Alfalfa
B, T, S
20
4
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
Alfilaria
B, T
20-30
3
14
Clip seeds
Alyceclover
B, T
35
4
1
21
See ¶ (b)(1) for swollen seeds
Bahiagrass:
Var. Pensacola
P, S
20-35
7
28
Light; see ¶ (b)(2)
See § 201.57a
All other vars.
P
30-35
3
21
Light; remove glumes; see ¶ (b)(2)
Scratch caryopses; KNO
3
; see § 201.57a
Barley
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill 5 days at 5 or 10 °C or predry
Barrelclover
B, T
20
4
1
14
Remove seeds from bur; see ¶ (b)(11)
Bean:
Adzuki
B, T, S
20-30
4
1
10
Field
B, T, S, TC
20-30; 25
5
1
8
Mung
B, T, S
20-30
3
1
7
Beet, field
B, T, S
20-30
3
14
See ¶ (b)(3)
Beet, sugar
B, T, S
20-30; 20
3
10
See ¶ (b)(3)
Beggarweed, Florida
B, T
30
5
1
28
Bentgrass:
Colonial
P
15-30; 10-30; 15-25
7
28
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Creeping
P
15-30; 10-30; 15-25
7
28
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Velvet
P
15-25; 20-30
7
21
Light; KNO
3
Bermudagrass
P
20-35
7
21
Light; KNO
3
; see ¶ (a)(9)
Bermudagrass, giant
P
20-35
7
21
Light; KNO
3
; see ¶ (a)(9)
Prechill at 10 °C for 7 days and then test at 20-35 °C; continue tests of hulled seed for 14 days and of unhulled seed for 21 days
Bluegrass:
Annual
P
20-30
7
21
Light
Bulbous
P, S
10
10
35
KNO
3
or soil
Prechill all samples at 5 °C for 7 days.
Canada
P
15-25; 15-30
10
28
Light; KNO
3
10-30 °C.
Glaucantha
P
15-25; 15-30
10
28
Light; KNO
3
Kentucky
P
15-25; 15-30
10
28
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 10 °C for 5 days.
Nevada
P
20-30
7
21
Light; KNO
3
Rough
P
20-30
7
21
Light
Texas
P
20-30
7
28
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks.
Wood
P
20-30
7
28
Light
Bluejoint
TB, P
15-25
10
21
Light and KNO
3
optional
Prechill at 5 °C for 5 days
Bluestem:
Big
P, TS
20-30
7
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Little
P, TS
20-30
7
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Sand
P, TS
20-30
7
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Yellow
P, TS
20-30
5
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Bottlebrush-squirreltail
P, B
20; 15
10
14
See § 201.57a.
Brome:
Field
P, TB
15-25; 20-30
6
14
Light
Prechill at 10 °C for 5 days.
Meadow
B, T, TB
20-30
6
14
Light optional
Mountain
P
20-30
6
14
Light.
Smooth
P, B, TB
20-30
6
14
Light optional
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, then test at 30 °C for 9 additional days.
Broomcorn
B, T, S
20-30
3
10
Buckwheat
B, T
20-30
3
6
Buffalograss:
(Burs)
P,TB,TS
20-35
7
14
Light;KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; See § 201.57a.
(Caryopses)
P
20-35
5
14
Light;KNO
3
Buffelgrass
S
30
7
28
Light; press fascicles into well-packed soil and prechill at 5 °C for 7 days
See ¶ (b)(4); see § 201.57a.
Burclover, California
B, T
20
4
1
14
Remove seeds from bur; see ¶ (b)(11)
Burclover, spotted
B, T
20
4
1
14
Remove seeds from bur; see ¶ (b)(11)
Burnet, littler
B, T
15
5
14
Buttonclover
B, T
20
4
1
10
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Camelina
TB
20
4
7
Canarygrass
B, T
20-30
3
7
Canarygrass, reed
P
20-30
5
21
Light; KNO
3
Carpetgrass
P
20-35
10
21
Light
KNO
3
.
Castorbean
T, S
20-30
7
14
Remove caruncle if mold interferes with test
Chess, soft
P
20-30
7
14
Light
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Chickpea
T,S
20-30
3
1
17
Clover:
Alsike
B, T, S
20
3
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Arrowleaf
B, T
20; 15
4
1
14
See ¶ (b)(11)
Berseem
B, T, S
20
3
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Cluster
B, T
20
4
1
10
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Crimson
B, T, S
20
4
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Kenya
B, T, S
20
3
17
Ladino
B, T, S
20
3
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Lappa
B, T
20
3
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Large hop
B, T
20
4
1
14
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Persian
B, T
20
3
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Red
B, T, S
20
4
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Rose
B, T
20
4
1
10
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Small hop
B, T
20
4
1
14
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Strawberry
B, T
20
3
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Sub
B, T
20
4
1
14
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
White
B, T, S
20
3
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
15 °C.
Corn:
Field
B, T, S, TC
20-30; 25
4
7
Pop
B, T, S, TC
20-30; 25
4
7
Cotton
B, T, S
20-30; 30
4
1
12
Test by alternate method; see ¶ (b)(5).
Cowpea
B, T, S
20-30
5
1
8
Crambe
T,B
20;25
4
7
KNO
3
Crested dogtail
P
20-30
10
21
Light
Prechill at 5° or 10 °C for 3 days.
Crotalaria:
Lance
B, T, S
20-30
4
1
10
Showy
B, T, S
20-30
4
1
10
Slenderleaf
B, T, S
20-30
4
1
10
Striped
B, T, S
20-30
4
1
10
Sunn
B, T, S
20-30
4
1
10
Crownvetch
B,T,TB,S
20
7
1
14
Dallisgrass
P
20-35
7
21
Light; KNO
3
Dichondra
B, T
20-30
7
1
28
Drop seed, sand
P
5-35; 15-35
5
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 4 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Emmer
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days or predry.
Fescue:
Chewings
P
15-25
7
21
Light and KNO
3
optional
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Hair
P
10-25
10
28
KNO
3
Hard
P
15-25
7
21
Light and KNO
3
optional
Meadow
P
15-25; 20-30
5
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
Red
P
15-25
7
21
Light and KNO
3
optional
Sheep
P
15-25
7
21
Light and KNO
3
optional
Tall
P
15-25; 20-30
5
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days and test for 21 days.
Flatpea
T
15-25;20
14
1
28
Flax
B, T, S
20-30
3
7
Foxtail, creeping
P
15-30
7
21
Light;KNO
3
Foxtail, meadow
P
20-30
7
14
Light
Galletagrass
P, B
20; 25; 20-30
4
10
See § 201.57a
Grama:
Blue
P, TB
20-30
7
14
Light
KNO
3
; see § 201.57a.
Side-oats
P
15-30
7
14
Light; KNO
3
See § 201.57a.
Guar
B, T, S
30; 20-30
5
1
14
Guineagrass
P
15-35
10
28
Light; KNO
3
optional
Hardinggrass
P
10-30
7
28
Light
KNO
3
.
Alternate method
P
15-25
7
14
Light; presoak at 15 °C for 24 hrs
Hemp
B, T
20-30
3
7
Indiangrass, yellow
P, TS
20-30
7
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Indigo, hairy
B, T
20-30
5
1
14
Japanese lawngrass
P
35-20
10
28
Light; KNO
3
Johnsongrass
P
20-35
7
35
Light
KNO
3
; see § 201.57a.
Kenaf
T, B
20-30
4
1
8
Kochia, forage
P
20
4
14
See § 201.57a.
Kudzu
B, T
20-30
5
1
14
Lentil
B, T
20
5
1
10
Lespedeza:
Korean
B, T, S
20-35
5
1
14
Sericea
B, T, S
20-35
7
1
21
Siberian
B, T, S
20-35
7
1
21
Striate
B, T, S
20-35
7
1
14
Lovegrass, sand
P
20-30
5
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 6 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Lovegrass, weeping
P
20-35
5
14
Light
KNO
3
; see § 201.57a.
Lupine:
Blue
B, T, S
20
4
1
10
White
B, T
20
3
1
10
Yellow
B, T
20
7
1
10
Manilagrass
P
35-20
10
28
Light; KNO
3
Medic, black
B, T, S
20
4
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
Milkvetch
B, T
20
6
1
14
Alternate method
B, TB, T
15-25
10
1
21
Millet:
Browntop
B, P, T
20-30; 30
4
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
Predry at 35 or 40 °C for 7 days and test at 30 °C.
Alternate method
B, P, T
5-35
4
14
Light; KNO
3
Foxtail
B, T
15-30; 20-30
4
10
Japanese
B, T
20-30
4
10
Pearl
B, T
20-30
3
7
Proso
B, T
20-30
3
7
Molassesgrass
P
20-30
7
21
Light
Mustard:
Black
P
20-30
3
7
Light
KNO
3
and prechill at 10 °C for 3 days.
India
P
20-30
3
7
Light
Prechill at 10 °C for 7 days and test for 5 days; KNO
3
.
White
P
20-30
3
5
Light
Napiergrass
B, T
20-30
3
10
Needlegrass, green:
Method 1
P
15-30
7
14
H
2
SO
4
,GA
3
and thiram; dark; see ¶ (b)(7)
Method 2
P
15-30
7
14
KNO
3
; dark; see (b)(7)
Oat
B, T, S
20; 15
5
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days and test for 7 days or predry and test for 10 days.
Oatgrass, tall
P
20-30
6
14
Light
Orchardgrass
P, TS
15-25
7
21
Light; germination more rapid on soil
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Panicgrass, blue
P, TS
20-30
7
28
Light
Panicgrass, green
P
15-35
10
28
Light; KNO
3
optional
Pea, field
B, T, S
20
3
1
8
Peanut
B, T, S
20-30; 25
5
1
10
Remove shells
Ethephon or ethylene; see ¶ (a) (10) and (11).
Radish
B, T
20
4
6
Rape:
Annual
B, T
20-30
3
7
Bird
P
20-30
3
10
Light
KNO
3
.
Turnip
B, T
20-30
3
7
Winter
B, T
20-30
3
7
Redtop
P, TB
20-30
5
10
Light
KNO
3
.
Rescuegrass
P, S
10-30
7
28
Light; see ¶ (b)(8) for alternate method
In soil at 15 °C.
Rhodesgrass
P
20-30
6
14
Light; KNO
3
Rice
T, S
20-30; 30
5
14
See ¶ (b)(9) for alternate method
Presoak; see ¶ (b)(9).
Ricegrass, Indian
P
15
7
42
Prechill at 5 °C for 4 weeks and test for 21 additional days; see § 201.57a.
Alternate method
S
5-15; 15; 15-25
7
28
Dark; prechill in soil at 5 °C for 4 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Roughpea
B, T
20
7
1
14
Rye
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days or predry.
Rye, mountain
B, T
20; 15
4
7
See § 201.57a.
Ryegrass:
Annual
P, TB
15-25
5
14
Light optional; see ¶ (b)(10) for fluorescence test
Light; KNO
3
; prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days and test at 15-25 °C; if still dormant prechill for 3 days and continue test at 15-25 °C an additional 4 days.
Intermediate
P, TB
15-25
7
14
Light
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days and test at 15-25 °C; if still dormant rechill for 3 days and continue test at 15-25 °C an additional 4 days.
Perennial
P, TB
15-25
5
14
Light optional; see ¶ (b)(10) for fluorescence test
Light; KNO
3
; prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days and test at 15-25 °C; if still dormant rechill for 3 days and continue test at 15-25 °C an additional 4 days.
Wimmera
P, TB
15-25; 20-30
5
14
Light optional
Light; KNO
3
; prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days and test at 15-25 °C; if still dormant rechill for 3 days and continue test at 15-25 °C an additional 4 days.
Safflower
P, B, T, S
15; 20
4
14
Light at 15 °C
Sagewort, Louisiana
P
15-25
7
14
Light
Sainfoin
B, T
20-30
4
1
14
Saltbush, fourwing
B
20
5
14
See ¶ (b)(13)
Prechill at 5 °C for 7 days.
Alternate method
B
15
21
Sesame
B, T, TB
20-30
3
6
Sesbania
B, T
20-30
5
1
7
Smilo
P
20-30
7
42
Light
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Sorghum
B, T, S
20-30
4
10
Prechill grain vars. at 5° or 10 °C for 5 days; test sweet vars. at 30-45 °C, maintaining 45 °C for 2-4 hours per day.
Sorghum almum
T, S
20-35; 15-35
5
21
Prechill at 5 °C for 5 days; on the 10th day of test, clip or pierce the distal end of ungerminated seeds.
Sorghum-sudangrass
B, T, S
20-30; 25
4
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Sorgrass
2
B, T, S
15-35; 20-35
5
21
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Sourclover
B, T
20
3
1
14
See ¶ (b)(11)
Soybean
B, T, S, TC
20-30; 25
5
1
8
Spelt
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Sudangrass
B, T, S
20-30; 15-30
4
10
Prechill at 10 °C for 5 days.
Sunflower
T,B
20
4
7
Sweetclover:
White
B, T, S
20
4
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
Yellow
B, T, S
20
4
1
7
See ¶ (b)(11)
Sweet vernalgrass
P
20-30
6
14
Light
Sweetvetch, northern
B, TB, T
15-25; 20
14
1
28
Switchgrass
P, TS
15-30
7
14
Light; KNO
3
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks; see § 201.57a.
Teff
TB
20—30
4
7
KNO
3
Timothy
P, TB
15-25; 20-30
5
10
Light; see ¶ (a)(9)
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Timothy, turf
P, TB
15-25; 20-30
5
10
Light
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Tobacco
P, TB
20-30
7
14
Light
Trefoil:
Big
B, T
20
5
1
12
Birdsfoot
B, P, T
20
5
1
12
Triticale
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Vaseygrass
P
20-35
7
21
Light
KNO
3
.
Veldtgrass
P
10-30
7
28
Light
See § 201.57a.
Velvetbean
B, T, S, C
20-30
3
1
14
Velvetgrass
P
20-30
6
14
Light
Vetch:
Common
B, T
20
5
1
10
Hairy
B, T
20
5
1
14
Hungarian
B, T
20
5
1
10
Monantha
B, T
20
5
1
10
Narrowleaf
B, T
20
5
1
14
Purple
B, T
20
5
1
10
Woollypod
B, T
20
5
1
14
Prechill at 10 °C for 5 days, test at 15 °C.
Wheat:
Common
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Club
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Durum
B, T, S
20; 15
4
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Polish
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Poulard
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Wheat Agrotricum
B, T, S
20; 15
4
7
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days, or predry.
Wheatgrass:
Beardless
P, TB
15-25
7
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Fairway crested
P, TB
15-25; 20-30
5
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Standard crested
P, TB
15-25; 20-30
5
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Intermediate
P
15-25
5
28
Light and KNO
3
optional
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Alternate method
P
20-30
5
28
Light
Pubescent
P
15-25
5
28
Light and KNO
3
optional
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Alternate method
P
20-30
5
28
Light
Siberian
P, TB
15-25
7
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
KNO
3
and prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 7 days.
Slender
P, TB
15-25; 10-30
5
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days; if still dormant on the 10th day, rechill 2 days, then place at 20-30 °C for 4 days.
Streambank
P, TB
15-25
5
14
Light and KNO
3
optional
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Tall
P
15-25
5
21
Light and KNO
3
optional
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Alternate method
P
20-30
5
21
Light
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
Western
B, P, T
15-30
7
28
Dark
KNO
3
or soil; see § 201.57a.
Wildrye:
Basin
P
15-25
10
21
See § 201.57a.
Canada
P
15-30
7
21
Light
Prechill at 5 °C for 2 weeks.
Russian
P
20-30
5
14
Light
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 5 days.
VEGETABLE SEED
Artichoke
B, T
20-30
7
21
Asparagus
B, T, S
20-30
7
21
Asparagusbean
B, T, S
20-30
5
1
8
Bean:
Garden
B, T, S, TC
20-30; 25
None
1
8
See ¶ (b)(12).
Lima
B, T, C, S
20-30
5
1
9
Runner
B, T, S
20-30
5
1
9
Beet
B, T, S
20-30
3
14
See ¶ (b)(3)
Broadbean
S, C
20
4
1
14
See ¶ (b)(11)
Prechill at 10 °C for 3 days.
Broccoli
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light.
Brussels Sprouts
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill 5 days at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and Light.
Burdock, great
B, T
20-30
7
14
Cabbage
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light.
Cabbage, Chinese
B, T
20-30
3
7
Cabbage, tronchuda
B, P
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light.
Cardoon
B, T
20-30
7
21
Carrot
B, T
20-30
6
14
Cauliflower
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light
Celeriac
P
5-25; 20
10
21
Light; see ¶ (a)(9)
Celery
P
15-25; 20
10
21
Light; see ¶ (a)(9)
Chard, Swiss
B, T, S
20-30
3
14
See ¶ (b)(3)
Chicory
P, TS
20-30
5
14
Light; KNO
3
or soil; see ¶ (a)(9)
Chives
B, T
20
6
14
Citron
B, T
20-30
7
14
Soak seeds 6 hrs
Test at 30 °C.
Collards
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light .
Corn, sweet
B, T, S, TC
20-30; 25
4
7
Cornsalad
B, T
15
7
28
Test at 10 °C.
Cowpea
B, T, S
20-30
5
1
8
Cress:
Garden
B, P, T
15
4
10
Light.
Upland
P, TB
20-35
4
7
Light; KNO
3
Water
P
20-30
4
14
Light
Cucumber
B, T, S
20-30
3
7
Keep substratum on dry side; see ¶ (a)(3)
Dandelion
P, TB
20-30
7
21
Light; see ¶ (a)(9)
Dill
B, T
20-30
7
21
Eggplant
P, TB, RB, T
20-30
7
14
Light; KNO
3
.
Endive
P, TS
20-30
5
14
Light; KNO
3
or soil
See ¶ (b)(6).
Gherkin, West India
B, T, S
20-30
3
7
Test at 30 °C.
Kale
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5° or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light.
Kale, Chinese
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light.
Kale, Siberian
B, P, T
20-30; 20
3
7
Kohlrabi
B, P, T
20-30
3
10
Prechill at 5 or 10 °C for 3 days; KNO
3
and light.
Leek
B, T
20
6
14
Lettuce
P
20
None
7
Light
Prechill at 10 °C for 3 days or test at 15 °C.
Melon
B, T, S
20-30
4
10
Keep substratum on dry side; see ¶ (a)(3)
Mustard, India
P
20-30
3
7
Light
Prechill at 10 °C for 7 days and test for 5 additional days; KNO
3
.
Mustard, spinach
B, T
20-30
3
7
Okra
B, T
20-30
4
1
14
Onion
B, T
20
6
10
Alternate method
S
20
6
12
Onion, Welsh
B, T
20
6
10
Pak-choi
B, T
20-30
3
7
Parsley
B, T, TS
20-30
11
28
Parsnip
B, T, TS
20-30
6
28
Pea
B, T,S
20
5
1
8
Pepper
TB, RB, T
20-30
6
14
Light and KNO
3
.
Pumpkin
B, T, S
20-30
4
7
Keep substratum on dry side; see ¶ (a)(3)
Radish
B, T
20
4
6
Rhubarb
TB, TS
20-30
7
21
Light
Rutabaga
B, T
20-30
3
14
Sage
B, T, S
20-30
5
14
Salsify
B, T
15
5
10
Prechill at 10 °C for 3 days.
Savory, summer
B, T
20-30
5
21
Sorrel
P, TB, TS
20-30
3
14
Light
Test at 15 °C.
Soybean
B, T, S, TC
20-30; 25
5
1
8
Spinach
TB, T
15;10
7
21
Keep substratum on dry side; see ¶ (a)(3)
Spinach, New Zealand
T
15; 20
5
21
Soak fruits overnight (16 hrs), air dry 7 hrs; plant in very wet towels; do not rewater unless later counts exhibit drying out
On 21st day scrape fruits and test for 7 additional days.
Alternate method
B, T
15
5
21
Remove pulp from basal end of fruit
Squash
B, T, S
20-30
4
7
Keep substratum on dry side; see ¶ (a)(3)
Tomato
B, P, RB, T
20-30
5
14
Light; KNO
3
.
Tomato, husk
P, TB
20-30
7
28
Light; KNO
3
Turnip
B, T
20-30
3
7
Watermelon
B, T, S
20-30; 25
4
14
Keep substratum on dry side; see ¶ (a)(3)
Test at 30 °C.
1
Hard seeds may be present. (See § 201.57)
2
Rhizomatous derivatives of a johnsongrass sorghum cross or a johnsongrass sudangrass cross.
[20 FR 7928, Oct. 21, 1955]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 201.58, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# examinations in the administration of the act
§ 201.58a
Indistinguishable seeds.
When the identification of the kind, variety, or type of seed or determination that seed is hybrid is not possible by seed characteristics, identification may be based upon the seedling, growing plant or mature plant characteristics according to such authentic information as is available.
(a)
Ryegrass.
In determining the pure seed percentage of perennial ryegrass and annual ryegrass, 400 seeds shall be grown on white filter paper and the number of fluorescent seedlings determined under ultraviolet light at the end of the germination period (see § 201.58(b)(10)).
(1) Fluorescence results are to be determined as test fluorescence level (TFL) to two decimal places as follows:
ER14de94.001
(2) The percentage of perennial ryegrass is calculated as follows:
ER14de94.002
where VFL = Variety fluorescence level.
(3) Using results from the above formula, the percentage of annual ryegrass is calculated as follows:
% Annual Ryegrass = % Pure Ryegrass−% Perennial Ryegrass
(4) If the test fluorescence level (TFL) of a perennial ryegrass is equal to or less than the variety fluorescence level (VFL) described for the variety, all pure ryegrass is considered to be perennial ryegrass and the formula is not applied.
(5) If the test fluorescence level (TFL) of an annual ryegrass is equal to or greater than the variety fluorescence level (VFL) described for the variety, all pure ryegrass is considered to be annual ryegrass and the formula is not applied.
(6) A list of variety fluorescence level (VFL) descriptions for perennial ryegrass varieties which are more than 0 percent fluorescent and annual ryegrass varieties which are less than 100 percent fluorescent is maintained and published by the National Grass Variety Review Board of the Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA). If the variety being tested is not stated or the fluorescence level has not been described, the fluorescence level shall be considered to be 0 percent for perennial ryegrass and 100 percent for annual ryegrass. Both VFL (annual) and VFL (perennial) values must always be entered in the formula. If a perennial ryegrass variety is being tested, the VFL (annual) value is 100 percent. If an annual ryegrass variety is being tested, the VFL (perennial) value is 0 percent. For blends the fluorescence level shall be interpolated according to the portion of each variety claimed to be present.
(b)
Sweetclover.
To determine the presence of yellow sweetclover in samples of white sweetclover, at least 400 seeds shall be subjected to the chemical test as follows:
(1) Preparation of test solution: Add 3 grams of cupric sulfate (CuSO
4
) to 30 ml of household ammonia (NH
4
OH, approximately 4.8 percent) in a stoppered bottle to form tetraamminecopper sulfate ([Cu(NH
3
)
4
]SO
4
) solution used for this test. After mixing, a light blue precipitate of cupric hydroxide (Cu(OH)
2
) should form. If no precipitate forms, add additional CuSO
4
until a precipitate appears. Since the strength of household ammonia can vary, formation of a precipitate indicates that a complete reaction has taken place between CuSO
4
and NH
4
OH; otherwise fumes from excess ammonium hydroxide may cause eye irritation.
(2) Preparation of seeds: To insure imbibition, scratch, prick, or otherwise scarify the seed coats of the sweetclover seeds being tested. Soak seeds in water for 2 to 5 hours in a glass container.
(3) Chemical reaction: When seeds have imbibed, remove excess water and add enough test solution to cover the seeds. Seeds coats of yellow sweetclover will begin to stain dark brown to black; seed coats of white sweetclover will be olive or yellow-green. Make the separation within 20 minutes, since the seed coats of white sweetclover will eventually turn black also.
(4) Calculation of results: Count the number of seeds which stain dark brown or black and divide by the total number of seeds tested; multiply by the pure seed percentage for Melilotus spp.; the result is the percentage of yellow sweetclover in the sample. The percentage of white sweetclover is found by subtracting the percentage of yellow sweetclover from the percentage of Melilotus spp. pure seed.
(c)
Wheat.
In determining varietal purity, the phenol test may be used. From the pure seed sample count four replicates of 100 seeds each. Soak the seed in distilled water for 16 hours; then flush with tap water and remove the excess water from the surface of the seeds. Place two layers of filter paper in a container and moisten with a 1 percent phenol (C
6
H
5
OH) solution. Place the seed, palea side down, on the two layers of filter paper and cover the
container. A preliminary observation may be made at 2 hours. At 4 hours, record the number of seeds in each of the following color categories:
(1) Ivory.
(2) Fawn.
(3) Light Brown.
(4) Brown.
(5) Brown Black.
(d)
Soybean.
In determining the varietal purity, the peroxidase test may be used. Remove and place the dry seed coat from seeds into individual test tubes or suitable containers. Add 10 drops (0.5-1.0 ml) of 0.5 percent guaiacol (C
7
H
8
O
2
) to each test tube. After waiting 10 minutes add one drop (about 0.1 ml) of 0.1 percent hydrogen peroxide (H
2
O
2
). One minute after adding hydrogen peroxide, record the seed coat as peroxidase positive (high peroxidase activity) indicated by a reddish-brown solution or peroxidase negative (low peroxidase activity) indicated by a colorless solution in the test tube. Various sample sizes may be used for this test. Test results shall include the sample size tested.
(e)
Oat.
In determining the varietal purity, the fluorescence test may be used. Place at least 400 seeds on a black background under a F15T8-BLB or comparable ultraviolet tube(s) in an area where light from other sources is excluded. Seeds are considered fluorescent if the lemma or palea fluoresce or appear light in color. “Partially fluorescent” seeds shall be considered fluorescent. Seeds are considered nonfluorescent if the lemma and palea do not fluoresce and appear dark in color under the ultraviolet light.
[59 FR 64514, Dec. 14, 1994]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 201.58a, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 201.58b
Origin.
The presence of incidental weed seeds, foreign matter, or any other existing circumstances shall be considered in determining the origin of seed.
[5 FR 35, Jan. 4, 1940. Redesignated at 20 FR 7940, Oct. 21, 1955]
§ 201.58c
Detection of captan, mercury, or thiram on seed.
The bioassay method may be used according to the procedure given in Association of Official Seed Analysts, Handbook No. 26, “Microbiological Assay of Fungicide-treated Seeds”, May 1964.
[38 FR 12733, May 15, 1973]
§ 201.58d
Fungal endophyte test.
A fungal endophyte test may be used to determine the amount of fungal endophyte (
Acremonium
spp.) in certain grasses.
(a) Method of preparation of aniline blue stain for use in testing grass seed and plant material for the presence of fungal endophyte:
(1) Prepare a 1 percent aqueous aniline blue solution by dissolving 1 gram aniline blue in 100 ml distilled water.
(2) Prepare the endophyte staining solution of one part of 1 percent aniline blue solution with 2 parts of 85 percent lactic acid (C
3
H
6
O
3
).
(3) Use stain as-is or dilute with water if staining is too dark.
(b) Procedure for determining levels of fungal endophyte in grass seed:
(1) Take a sub-sample of seed (1 gram is sufficient) from the pure seed portion of the kind under consideration.
(2) Digest seed at room temperature for 12-16 hours in a 5 percent sodium hydroxide (NaOH) solution or other temperature/time combination resulting in adequate seed softening.
(3) Rinse thoroughly in running tap water.
(4) De-glume seeds and place on a microscope slide in a drop of endophyte staining solution. Slightly crush the seeds. Use caution to prevent carryover hyphae of fungal endophyte from one seed to another.
(5) Place coverglass on seed and apply gentle pressure.
(6) Examine with compound microscope at 100-400x magnification, scoring a seed as positive if any identifiable hyphae are present.
(7) Various sample sizes may be used for this test. Precision changes with sample size; therefore, the test results must include the sample size tested.
(c) Procedure for determining levels of fungal endophyte in seedlings from
seed samples suspected to contain fungal endophyte:
(1) Select seeds at random and germinate.
(2) Examine seedlings from the sample germinated after growing for a minimum of 48 days.
(3) Remove the outermost sheath from the seedling. Tissue should have no obvious discoloration from saprophytes and should have as little chlorophyll as possible.
(4) Isolate a longitudinal section of leaf sheath approximately 3-5 mm in width.
(5) Place the section on a microscope slide with the epidermis side down.
(6) Stain immediately with the endophyte staining solution as prepared in paragraph (a) (2) and (3) of this section. Allow dye to remain at least 15 seconds but no more than one minute.
(7) Blot off the excess dye with tissue paper. Sections should remain on the slide, but may adhere to the tissue paper; if so, remove and place in proper position on the slide.
(8) Place a coverglass on the sections and flood with water.
(9) Proceed with evaluation as described in paragraph (b) (6) and (7) of this section.
[59 FR 64515, Dec. 14, 1994]

# tolerances
§ 201.59
Application.
Tolerances shall be recognized between the percentages or rates of occurrence found by analysis, test, or examination in the administration of the Act and percentages or rates of occurrence required or stated as required by the Act. Tolerances for purity percentages and germination percentages provided for in §§ 201.60 and 201.63 shall be determined from the mean of (a) the results being compared, or (b) the result found by test and the figures shown on a label, or (c) the result found by test and a standard. All other tolerances, including tolerances for pure-live seed and fluorescence, and tolerances for purity based on 10 to 1,000 seeds, seedlings, or plants shall be determined from the result or results found in the administration of the Act.
[5 FR 34, Jan. 4, 1940, as amended at 20 FR 7940, Oct. 21, 1955; 24 FR 3954, May 15, 1959; 35 FR 6108, Apr. 15, 1970; 85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.60
Purity percentages.
(a)(1) The tolerance for a given percentage of the purity components is the same whether for pure seed, other crop seed, weed seed, or inert matter. Wider tolerances are provided when 33 percent or more of the sample is composed of seed plus empty florets and/or empty spikelets of the following chaffy kinds: bentgrasses, bermudagrasses, bluegrasses, bluestems, bottlebrush- squirreltail, bromes, buffalograss, buffelgrass, carpetgrass, soft chess, dallisgrass, fescues, foxtails, galletagrass, guineagrass, gramas, molassesgrass, tall oatgrass, orchardgrass, redtop, rescuegrass, rhodesgrass, Indian ricegrass, ryegrasses, sweet vernalgrass, teff, vaseygrass, veldtgrass, wheatgrasses, wildryes, and yellow indiangrass. The wider tolerances do not apply to seed devoid of hulls.
(2) To determine the tolerance for any purity percentage found in the administration of the Act, the percentage found is averaged (i) with that claimed or shown on a label or (ii) with a specified standard. The tolerance is found from this average. If more than one test is made, all except any test obviously in error shall be averaged and the result treated as a single percentage.
(b) The tolerances found in columns C and D for the respective purity percentages shown in columns A and B of table No. 3 shall be used for (1) unmixed seed and (2) mixtures in which the particle-weight ratio is 1:1 to 1.49:1, inclusive. Tolerances for intermediate percentages not shown in table 3 shall be obtained by interpolation.
Table 3—Tolerances for Any Component of a Purity Analysis for (1) Unmixed Seed or (2) Mixed Seed in Which the Particle Weight Ratio Is 1: 1 to 1.49: 1, Inclusive
Average analysis (A)
(B)
Nonchaffy seeds (C)
Chaffy seeds (D)
99.95-100.00
0.00-0.04
0.13
0.16
99.90-99.94
.05-.09
.20
.23
99.85-99.89
.10-.14
.24
.29
99.80-99.84
.15-.19
.28
.34
99.75-99.79
.20-.24
.32
.37
99.70-99.74
.25-.29
.35
.41
99.65-99.69
.30-.34
.37
.45
99.60-99.64
.35-.39
.40
.48
99.55-99.59
.40-.44
.42
.50
99.50-99.54
.45-.49
.44
.53
99.40-99.49
.50-.59
.47
.57
99.30-99.39
.60-.69
.51
.60
99.20-99.29
.70-.79
.54
.64
99.10-99.19
.80-.89
.57
.66
99.00-99.09
.90-.99
.59
.70
98.75-98.99
1.00-1.24
.64
.75
98.50-98.74
1.25-1.49
.71
.82
98.25-98.49
1.50-1.74
.76
.89
98.00-98.24
1.75-1.99
.82
.95
97.75-97.99
2.00-2.24
.87
1.01
97.50-97.74
2.25-2.49
.92
1.07
97.25-97.49
2.50-2.74
.96
1.12
97.00-97.24
2.75-2.99
1.00
1.17
96.50-96.99
3.00-3.49
1.06
1.24
96.00-96.49
3.50-3.99
1.14
1.34
95.50-95.99
4.00-4.49
1.21
1.41
95.00-95.49
4.50-4.99
1.27
1.49
94.00-94.99
5.00-5.99
1.36
1.60
93.00-93.99
6.00-6.99
1.47
1.73
92.00-92.99
7.00-7.99
1.58
1.85
91.00-91.99
8.00-8.99
1.67
1.96
90.00-90.99
9.00-9.99
1.75
2.06
88.00-89.99
10.00-11.99
1.87
2.19
86.00-87.99
12.00-13.99
2.01
2.36
84.00-85.99
14.00-15.99
2.14
2.51
82.00-83.99
16.00-17.99
2.24
2.64
80.00-81.99
18.00-19.99
2.35
2.76
78.00-79.99
20.00-21.99
2.44
2.86
76.00-77.99
22.00-23.99
2.52
2.96
74.00-75.99
24.00-25.99
2.59
3.04
72.00-73.99
26.00-27.99
2.65
3.12
70.00-71.99
28.00-29.99
2.71
3.19
65.00-69.99
30.00-34.99
2.80
3.29
60.00-64.99
35.00-39.99
2.89
3.40
50.00-59.99
40.00-49.99
2.96
3.48
(c) Tolerances calculated by the following formula shall be used for either chaffy or nonchaffy mixtures when the average particle-weight ratio is 1.5:1 to 20:1 and beyond:
The symbols used in the formula are as follows:
T = tolerance being calculated.
A = percent which the weight of the component with the heavier average particle-weight is of the weight of both components.
B = percent which the weight of the component with the lighter average particle-weight is of the weight of both components.
H = average particle-weight for the component with the heavier average particle-weight.
L = average particle-weight for the component with the lighter average particle-weight.
R = ratio of the average particle-weight for the component with the heavier average particle-weight to the average particle-weight for the component with the lighter average particle-weight. R = H / L.
ER14DE94.003
T1 = regular tolerance for the kind of seed (chaffy or nonchaffy) and for (100B)/(B + A/R).
In determining the values for A and B in the formula, the sample shall be regarded as composed of two parts:
(1) The kind, type, or variety under consideration, and
(2) All other components. Values for H and L shall be obtained from the last column of table 1, § 201.46, or by laboratory tests for inert matter, weed seeds, or other crop seeds where such values are not obtainable from table 1. In computing tolerances for nonchaffy kinds the values for T1 are taken from column C of table 3, and for chaffy kinds the values for T1 are taken from column D of table 3.
[26 FR 10036, Oct. 26, 1961, as amended at 59 FR 64515, Dec. 14, 1994; 65 FR 1709, Jan. 11, 2000; 85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.61
Fluorescence percentages in ryegrasses.
Tolerances for 400-seed fluorescence tests shall be those set forth in the following table plus one-half the regular pure-seed tolerance determined in accordance with § 201.60. When only 200 seeds of a component in a mixture are tested, an additional 2 percent shall be added to the fluorescence tolerance.
Fluorescence Tolerance, Based on Test Fluorescence (TFL)
100
99
1.0
98
1.6
97
2.0
96
2.3
95
2.6
94
2.9
93
3.2
92
3.4
91
3.6
90
3.8
89
4.0
88
4.1
87
4.3
86
4.5
85
4.7
84
4.8
83
4.9
82
5.0
81
5.2
80
5.3
79
5.4
78
5.5
77
5.6
76
5.7
75
5.8
74
5.8
73
5.9
72
6.0
71
6.1
70
6.2
69
6.2
68
6.3
67
6.3
66
6.4
65
6.5
64
6.5
63
6.5
62
6.6
61
6.6
60
6.7
59
6.7
58
6.8
57
6.8
56
6.8
55
6.8
54
6.9
53
6.9
52
6.9
51
6.9
50
6.9
49
6.9
48
6.9
47
6.9
46
6.9
45
6.9
44
6.9
43
6.9
42
6.9
41
6.9
40
6.9
39
6.8
38
6.8
37
6.8
36
6.8
35
6.7
34
6.7
33
6.7
32
6.6
31
6.6
30
6.5
29
6.5
28
6.4
27
6.4
26
6.3
25
6.2
24
6.2
23
6.1
22
6.0
21
5.9
20
5.8
19
5.7
18
5.6
17
5.5
16
5.4
15
5.3
14
5.2
13
5.0
12
4.9
11
4.7
10
4.6
9
4.4
8
4.2
7
4.0
6
3.7
5
3.5
4
3.2
3
2.8
2
2.4
1
1.8
0
1.0
[32 FR 12781, Sept. 6, 1967, as amended at 59 FR 64516, Dec. 14, 1994; 85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.62
Tests for determination of percentages of kind, variety, type, hybrid, or offtype.
Tolerances for tests for determination of percentages of kind, variety, type, hybrid, or offtype shall be those set forth in the following table, added to one-half the required pure seed tol- erances determined in accordance with § 201.60, except that one-half the pure seed tolerance will not be applied in determining tolerances for hybrids labeled on the basis of the percentage of pure seed which is hybrid.
Table 4—Tolerances for Purity Tests, When Results Are Based on 10 to 1,000 Seeds, Seedlings, or Plants Used in a Test
Seed, seedling, or plant count percent
Number of seeds, seedlings, or plants in tests
10
20
30
50
75
100
150
200
400
800
1,000
100 or 0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
98 or 2
10.3
7.3
6.0
4.6
3.8
3.3
2.7
2.3
1.6
1.2
1.0
96 or 4
14.4
10.2
8.3
6.4
5.3
4.6
3.7
3.2
2.3
1.7
1.5
94 or 6
17.5
12.4
10.1
7.8
6.4
5.5
4.5
3.9
2.9
2.1
1.9
92 or 8
20.0
14.1
11.5
8.9
7.3
6.3
5.2
4.5
3.4
2.4
2.2
90 or 10
22.1
15.7
12.8
9.9
8.1
7.0
5.7
4.9
3.8
2.8
2.4
88 or 12
24.0
17.0
13.8
10.7
8.7
7.6
6.2
5.4
4.1
3.0
2.7
86 or 14
25.7
18.1
14.7
11.4
9.3
8.1
6.6
5.7
4.5
3.2
2.9
84 or 16
26.9
19.0
15.5
12.1
9.8
8.5
7.0
6.0
4.8
3.4
3.0
82 or 18
28.2
20.0
16.4
12.6
10.3
8.9
7.3
6.3
5.0
3.6
3.2
80 or 20
29.5
20.9
16.9
13.2
10.7
9.3
7.6
6.6
5.3
3.8
3.3
78 or 22
30.5
21.6
17.6
13.6
11.0
9.6
7.9
6.8
5.5
3.9
3.5
76 or 24
31.4
22.3
18.2
14.1
11.5
9.9
8.1
7.0
5.7
4.1
3.6
74 or 26
32.3
22.8
18.6
14.4
11.8
10.2
8.3
7.2
5.8
4.2
3.7
72 or 28
33.0
23.4
19.0
14.8
12.1
10.5
8.5
7.4
6.0
4.3
3.8
70 or 30
33.7
23.8
19.5
15.1
12.3
10.7
8.7
7.5
6.2
4.4
3.9
68 or 32
34.3
24.3
19.9
15.4
12.5
10.8
8.9
7.7
6.3
4.5
4.0
66 or 34
35.0
24.7
20.2
15.7
12.7
11.0
9.0
7.8
6.4
4.6
4.0
64 or 36
35.4
25.0
20.5
15.8
12.9
11.2
9.1
7.9
6.5
4.6
4.1
62 or 38
35.5
25.4
20.6
15.9
13.0
11.3
9.2
8.0
6.6
4.7
4.2
60 or 40
36.1
25.7
20.9
16.1
13.2
11.4
9.3
8.1
6.7
4.8
4.2
58 or 42
36.2
25.7
21.0
16.2
13.3
11.5
9.4
8.1
6.8
4.8
4.2
56 or 44
36.5
25.8
21.0
16.4
13.3
11.5
9.4
8.2
6.8
4.8
4.3
54 or 46
36.8
25.8
21.2
16.4
13.4
11.6
9.5
8.2
6.9
4.9
4.3
52 or 48
36.8
25.9
21.2
16.5
13.4
11.6
9.5
8.2
6.9
4.9
4.3
50
36.8
25.9
21.3
16.5
13.4
11.6
9.5
8.2
6.9
4.9
4.3
[32 FR 12781, Sept. 6, 1967, as amended at 33 FR 10841, July 31, 1968; 35 FR 6108, Apr. 15, 1970; 59 FR 64516, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 201.63
Germination.
The following tolerances are applicable to the percentage of germination and also to the sum of the germination plus the hard seed when 400 or more seeds are tested.
Mean (See § 201.59)
Tolerance
96 or over
5
90 or over but less than 96
6
80 or over but less than 90
7
70 or over but less than 80
8
60 or over but less than 70
9
Less than 60
10
When only 200 seeds of a component in a mixture are tested 2 percent shall be added to the above germination tolerances.
[15 FR 2399, Apr. 28, 1950, as amended at 20 FR 7940, Oct. 21, 1955]
§ 201.64
Pure live seed.
The tolerance for pure live seed shall be determined by applying the respective tolerances to the germination plus the hard seed and dormant seed, and the pure seed.
ER07JY20.002
[85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.65
Noxious-weed seeds in interstate commerce.
Tolerances for rates of occurrence of noxious-weed seeds shall be recognized and shall be applied to the number of noxious-weed seeds found by analysis in the quantity of seed specified for noxious-weed seed determinations in § 201.46, except as provided in § 201.16(b). Rates per pound or ounce must be converted to the equivalent number of
seeds found in § 201.46, Table 1, Minimum weight for noxious-weed seed examination (grams). Some tolerances are listed in the following table. The number found as represented by the label or test (Column X) will be considered within tolerance if not more than the corresponding numbers in Column Y are found by analysis in the administration of the Act. For numbers of seed greater than those in the table, a tolerance based on a degree of certainty of 5 percent (P = 0.05) can be calculated by the formula, Y = X + 1.65√X + 0.03, where X is the number of seeds represented by the label or test and Y is the maximum number within tolerance.
Number represented by label or test
Maximum number within tolerances
Number represented by label or test
Maximum number within tolerances
Number represented by label or test
Maximum number within tolerances
(X)
(Y)
(X)
(Y)
(X)
(Y)
0
2
34
43
68
81
1
2
35
44
69
82
2
4
36
45
70
83
3
5
37
46
71
84
4
7
38
47
72
85
5
8
39
49
73
86
6
9
40
50
74
87
7
11
41
51
75
89
8
12
42
52
76
90
9
13
43
53
77
91
10
14
44
54
78
92
11
16
45
55
79
93
12
17
46
56
80
94
13
18
47
58
81
95
14
19
48
59
82
96
15
21
49
60
83
97
16
22
50
61
84
98
17
23
51
62
85
99
18
24
52
63
86
101
19
25
53
64
87
102
20
27
54
65
88
103
21
28
55
67
89
104
22
29
56
68
90
105
23
30
57
69
91
106
24
31
58
70
92
107
25
32
59
71
93
108
26
34
60
72
94
109
27
35
61
73
95
110
28
36
62
74
96
111
29
37
63
75
97
112
30
38
64
76
98
114
31
39
65
78
99
115
32
41
66
79
100
116
33
42
67
80
[76 FR 31794, June 2, 2011]
§ 201.66
[Reserved]

# Certified Seed
§ 201.67
Seed certifying agency standards and procedures.
In order to qualify as a seed certifying agency for purposes of section 101(a)(25) of the Federal Seed Act (7 U.S.C. 1551(a)(25)) an agency must enforce standards and procedures, as conditions for its certification of seed, that meet or exceed the standards and procedures specified in § 201.68 through 201.78.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973]
§ 201.68
Eligibility requirements for certification of varieties.
When a seed originator, developer, owner of the variety, or agent thereof requests eligibility for certification, the certification agency shall require the person to provide the following information upon request:
(a) The name of the variety.
(b) A statement concerning the variety's origin and the breeding or reproductive stabilization procedures used in its development.
(c) A detailed description of the morphological, physiological, and other characteristics of the plants and seed that distinguish it from other varieties.
(d) Evidence supporting the identity of the variety, such as comparative yield data, insect and disease resistance, or other factors supporting the identity of the variety.
(e) A statement delineating the geographic area or areas of adaptation of the variety.
(f) A statement on the plans and procedures for the maintenance of seed classes, including the number of generations through which the variety may be multiplied.
(g) A description of the manner in which the variety is constituted when a particular cycle of reproduction or multiplication is specified.
(h) Any additional restrictions on the variety, specified by the breeder, with respect to geographic area of seed production, age of stand or other factors affecting genetic purity.
(i) A sample of seed representative of the variety as marketed.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973, as amended at 85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.69
Classes of certified seed.
(a) Classes of certified seed are as follows:
(1) Breeder.
(2) Foundation.
(3) Registered.
(4) Certified.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973]
§ 201.70
Limitations of generations for certified seed.
The number of generations through which a variety may be multiplied shall be limited to that specified by the originating breeder or owner and shall not exceed two generations beyond the Foundation seed class with the following exceptions which may be made with the permission of the originating or sponsoring plant breeder, institution, or his designee:
(a) Recertification of the Certified class may be permitted when no Foundation or Registered seed is being maintained; or
(b) The production of an additional generation of the Certified class may be permitted on a 1-year basis only, when an emergency is declared by any official seed certifying agency stating that the Foundation and Registered seed supplies are not adequate to plant the needed Certified acreage of the variety. The additional generation of Certified seed to meet the emergency need is ineligible for recertification.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973; 38 FR 26800, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 46 FR 53639, Oct. 29, 1981; 86 FR 40853, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.71
Establishing the source of all classes of certified seed.
The certifying agency shall have evidence of the class and source of seed used to plant each crop being considered for certification.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973]
§ 201.72
Production of all classes of certified seed.
(a) Each certifying agency shall determine that genetic purity and identity are maintained at all stages of certification including seeding, harvesting, processing, and labeling of the seed.
(b) The unit of certification shall be a clearly defined field or fields.
(c) One or more field inspections shall be made (1) previous to the time a seed crop of any class of certified seed is to be harvested, and (2) when genetic purity and identity can best be determined. The field shall be in suitable condition to permit an adequate inspection to determine genetic purity and identity.
(d) A certification sample shall be drawn in a manner approved by the certifying agency from each cleaned lot of seed eligible for certification. Evidence that any lot of seed has not been protected from contamination which might affect genetic purity, or is not properly identified, shall be cause for possible rejection of certification.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973]
§ 201.73
Processors and processing of all classes of certified seed.
The following requirements must be met by processors of all classes of certified seed:
(a) Facilities shall be available to perform processing without introducing admixtures.
(b) Identity of the seed must be maintained at all times.
(c) Records of all operations relating to certification shall be complete and adequate to account for all incoming seed and final disposition of seed.
(d) Processors shall permit inspection by the certifying agency of all records pertaining to all classes of certified seed.
(e) Processors shall designate an individual who shall be responsible to the certifying agency for performing such duties as may be required by the certifying agency.
(f) Seed lots of the same variety and class may be blended and the class retained. If lots of different classes are blended, the lowest class shall be applied to the resultant blend. Such blending can only be done when authorized by the certifying agency.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973]
§ 201.74
Labeling of all classes of certified seed.
(a) All classes of certified seed when offered for sale shall have an official certification label affixed to each container clearly identifying the certifying agency, the lot number or other identification, the variety name, and the kind and class of seed.
(b) In the case of seed sold in bulk, the invoice or accompanying document shall identify the certifying agency, the crop kind, variety, class of seed, and the lot number or other identification.
(c) The official certification label may be printed directly on the container when an accounting of the containers is required by the certifying agency. The seed lot number or other identification number, the kind, and variety name shall appear on the official label and/or directly on the container in a position to be viewed in conjunction with the official certification label.
(d) Labels other than those printed on the containers shall be attached to containers in a manner that prevents removal and reattachment without tampering being obvious.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973, as amended at 46 FR 53639, Oct. 29, 1981; 65 FR 1709, Jan. 11, 2000; 76 FR 31795, June 2, 2011; 85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.75
Interagency certification.
Interagency certification may be accomplished by participation of more than one official certifying agency in performing the services required to certify a lot of seed.
(a) The certifying agency issuing labels for all classes of certified seed shall require the seed on which the labels are used to meet standards at least equal to the minimum genetic standards for the seed in question as specified in Table 5 of this part.
(b) Seed to be recognized for interagency certification must be received in containers carrying official certification labels, or if shipped for processing, evidence of its eligibility from another official certifying agency, together with the following information:
(1) Variety and kind;
(2) Quantity of seed (pounds or bushels);
(3) Class of certified seed;
(4) Inspection or lot number traceable to the previous certifying agency's records.
(c) Each label used in interagency certification shall be serially numbered or carry the certification identity number and clearly identify the certifying agencies involved, the variety, and the kind and class of seed. The seed lot number or other identification number, the kind, and variety name shall appear on the official label and/or directly on the container in a position to be viewed in conjunction with the official certification label.
[38 FR 25662, Sept. 14, 1973; 38 FR 26800, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 65 FR 1710, Jan. 11, 2000; 76 FR 31795, June 2, 2011; 85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]
§ 201.76
Minimum Land, Isolation, Field, and Seed Standards.
In the following Table 5 the figures in the “Land” column indicate the number of years that must elapse between
the destruction of a stand of a kind and establishment of a stand of a specified class of a variety of the same kind. A certification agency may grant a variance in the land cropping history in specific circumstances where cultural practices have been proven adequate to maintain genetic purity. The figures in “Isolation” column indicate the distance in feet from any contaminating source. The figures in the “Field” column indicate the minimum number of plants or heads in which one plant or head of another variety is permitted. The figure in the “Seed” column indicate the maximum percentage of seed of other varieties or off-types permitted in the cleaned seed.
Table 5
Crop
Foundation
Land
Isolation
Field
Seed
Registered
Land
Isolation
Field
Seed
Certified
Land
Isolation
Field
Seed
Alfalfa:
Non hybrid
1
4
44 48
600
(
59
182.88m)
1,000
0.1
1
3
3 44 48
300
(
59
91.44m)
400
0.25
1 2
1
44 49
165
(
59
50.29m)
100
1.0
Hybrid
1
4
43
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
42
1,000
0.1
1 2
1
3 43 44
165
(
59
50.29m)
42
100
1.0
Barley:
Non hybrid
7
1
23
0
3,000
0.05
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.2
Hybrid
30
1
21 32
660
(
59
201.17m)
3,000
0.05
30
1
21 32
660
(
59
201.17m)
2,000
0.1
30
1
21 32
330
(
59
100.59m)
1,000
55
0.2
Hybrid (Chemically assisted)
57
0
52 53
330
(
59
100.59m)
54
1,000
0.2
Bean:
Field and garden
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.05
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
400
0.2
Mung
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
500
0.2
7
1
23
0
200
0.5
Broad bean
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.05
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
500
0.2
Buckwheat
7
1
660
(
59
201.17m)
3,000
0.05
7
1
660
(
59
201.17m)
2,000
0.1
7
1
660
(
59
201.17m)
1,000
0.2
Camelina
8
1
61
50 (
59
15.24m)
5,000
0.1
8
1
61
50 (
59
15.24m)
2,000
0.2
8
1
61
50 (
59
15.24m)
1,000
0.3
Chickpea
7
1
23
0
10,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.2
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.2
Clover all kinds
1 9
5
5 18 44
600
(
59
182.88m)
1,000
0.1
1 9
3
5 18 44
300
(
59
91.44m)
400
0.25
1 9
2
18 44
165
(
59
50.29)
100
1.0
Corn:
Foundation back cross
0
10 11
660
(
59
201.17m)
13 46
1,000
15
0.1
Inbred
0
10 11
660
(
59
201.17m)
13 46
1,000
15
0.1
Foundation single cross
0
10 11
660
(
59
201.17m)
13 46
1,000
15
0.1
Hybrid
0
11 12
660
(
59
201.17m)
1,000
0.5
Open-pollinated
0
11 12
660
(
59
201.17m)
200
0.5
Sweet
0
11 14
600
(
59
201.17m)
0.5
Cotton
0
19
0
10,000
0.03
0
19
0
5,000
0.05
0
19
0
1,000
0.1
Hybrid (Chemically assisted)
0
19
0
10,000
0.03
0
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
1,320
0.1
Cowpea
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.2
7
1
23
0
500
0.5
Crambe
7
1
660
(
59
201.17m)
2,000
0.05
7
1
24
660
(
59
201.17m)
1,000
0.1
7
1
24
660
(
59
201.17m)
500
0.25
Crownvetch
1
5
5 44
600
(
59
182.88m)
1,000
0.1
1
3
5 44
300
(
59
91.44m)
400
0.25
1
2
6 44
165
(
59
50.29)
100
1.0
Flatpea
1
4
5 44
600
(
59
182.88m)
1,000
0.1
1
3
3 5 44
300
(
59
91.44m)
400
0.25
1 2
1
3 44
165
(
59
50.29m)
100
1.0
Flax
7
1
23
0
5,000
0.05
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.2
Grasses:
Cross-pollinated
57
5
4 18 20
900
(
59
274.32m)
1,000
0.1
8 57
1
4 18 20
300
(
59
91.44m)
100
1.0
8 57
1
4 18 20 58
165
(
59
50.29)
50
47 50
2.0
Strains at least 80 percent apomictic and highly self-fertile species
57
5
4 18 20
60
1,000
0.1
8 57
1
4 18 20
30
100
1.0
9 57
1
4 18 20 58
15
50
16
2.0
(
59
18.29m)
(
59
9.14m)
(
59
4.57m)
Hemp
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
Lespedeza
1
5
4
10
(
59
3.05m)
1,000
0.1
1
3
4
10
(
59
3.05m)
400
0.25
1
2
4
10
(
59
3.05m)
100
1.0
Millet:
Cross-pollinated
8
1
40
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
27
20,000
0.005
8
1
40
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
27
10,000
0.01
8
1
40
660
(
59
201.17m)
27
5,000
0.02
Self-pollinated
8
1
23
0
3,000
0.05
8
1
23
0
2,000
0.1
8
1
23
0
1,000
0.2
Mustard
4
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
2,000
0.05
2
24
660
(
59
201.17m)
500
0.25
Oat
7
1
23
0
3,000
0.2
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.3
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.5
Okra
7
1
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
27
0
0.0
7
1
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
27
2,500
0.5
7
1
825
(
59
251.46m)
27
1,250
1.0
Onion
7
1
5,280
(
59
1,609.36m)
22
200
0.0
7
1
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
22
200
22
0.5
7
1
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
22
200
22
1.0
Pea, field
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.05
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
500
0.2
Peanut
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
500
0.2
7
1
23
0
200
0.5
Pepper
7
1
25
200
(
59
60.96m)
0
0.0
7
1
25
100
(
59
30.48m)
300
0.5
7
1
25
30
(
59
9.14m)
150
1.0
Radish
60
5
1,320 (
59
402.34m)
0
0.05
60
5
1,320 (
59
402.34m)
1,000
0.1
60
5
660 (
59
201.17m)
500
0.25
Rape:
Cross-pollinated
4
24
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
2,000
0.05
2
24
330
(
59
100.59m)
500
0.25
Self-pollinated
4
24
660
(
59
201.17m)
2,000
0.05
2
24
330
(
59
100.59m)
500
0.25
Rice
7
1
39
10
(
59
3.05m)
10,000
0.05
7
1
39
10
(
59
3.05m)
5,000
0.1
7
1
39
10
(
59
3.05)
1,000
0.2
Rye
7
1
18
660
(
59
201.17m)
3,000
0.05
7
1
18
660
(
59
201.17m)
2,000
0.1
7
1
18
660
(
59
201.17m)
1,000
0.2
Safflower
7
2
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
10,000
0.01
7
2
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
2,000
0.05
7
2
1,320
(
59
402.34m)
1,000
0.1
Sainfoin
1
5
5 44
600
(
59
182.88m)
1,000
0.1
1
3
5 44
300
(
59
91.44m)
400
0.25
1
2
6 44
165
(
59
50.29m)
100
1.0
Sorghum:
Nonhybrid
7
1
900
(
59
301.76m)
27
50,000
0.005
7
1
990
(
59
301.76m)
27
35,000
0.01
7
1
29
660
(
59
201.17m)
27
20,000
0.05
Hybrid seedstock
7
1
990
(
59
301.76m)
27
50,000
0.005
Commercial hybrid
7
1
21 29 31
660
(
59
201.17m)
27
20,000
0.1
Soybean
23
1
23
0
1,000
0.1
33
1
23
0
500
0.2
33
1
23
0
200
0.5
Sunflower:
Nonhybrid
1
41 45
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
200
0.02
1
41 45
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
200
0.02
1
41 45
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
200
34
0.1
Hybrid
1
41 45
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
35
250
56
0.02
1
41 45
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
35
250
34 56
0.1
Sunn hemp
7
1
1,320 (
59
402.34m)
62
5,000
0.1
7
1
660 (
59
201.17m)
62
1,000
0.25
7
1
330 (
59
100.58m)
62
500
0.5
Tomato
7
1
25
200
(
59
60.96m)
0
0
7
1
25
100
(
59
30.48m)
300
0.5
7
1
25
30
(
59
9.14m)
150
1.0
Tobacco:
Nonhybrid
36
0
37
150
(
59
45.72m)
0
0.01
36
0
37
150
(
59
45.72m)
0
0.01
36
0
37
150
(
59
45.72m)
0
0.01
Hybrid
36
0
38
150
(
59
45.72m)
0
0.01
Trefoil, birdsfoot
1
5
5 44
600
(
59
182.88m)
1,000
0.1
1
3
5 44
300
(
59
91.44m)
400
0.25
1
2
6 44
165
(
59
50.29m)
100
1.0
Triticale
7
1
23
0
3,000
0.05
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.2
Vetch
1 7
5
17 44
10
(
59
3.05m)
1,000
0.1
1 7
3
17 44
10
(
59
3.05m)
400
0.25
1 7
2
17 44
10
(
59
3.05m)
100
1.0
Vetch, milk
1
5
5 44
600
(
59
182.88m)
2,000
0.05
1
3
5 44
300
(
59
91.44m)
1,000
0.1
1
2
44
165
(
59
50.29m)
200
0.5
Watermelon
7
1
26
2,640
(
59
804.66m)
28
0
0
7
1
26
2,640
(
59
402.34m)
28
0
0.5
7
1
26
1,320
28
500
1.0
Wheat:
Nonhybrid
7
1
23
0
3,000
0.05
7
1
23
0
2,000
0.1
7
1
23
0
1,000
0.2
Hybrid
30
1
21 32
660
(
59
201.17m)
3,000
0.05
30
1
21 32
660
(
59
201.17m)
2,000
0.1
30
1
21 32
330
(
59
100.59m)
1,000
0.2
Hybrid (Chemically assisted)
51
0
52 53
330
(
59
100.58m)
54
1,000
55
0.2
1
The land must be free of volunteer plants of the crop kind during the year immediately prior to establishment and no manure or other contaminating material shall be applied the year previous to seeding or during the establishment and productive life of the stand.
2
At least 2 years must elapse between destruction of indistinguishable varieties or varieties of dissimilar adaptation and establishment of the stand for the production of the Certified class of seed.
3
Isolation distance for certified seed production shall be at least 500 feet (152.07m) from varieties of dissimilar adaptation.
4
Isolation between classes of the same variety may be reduced to 25 percent of the distance otherwise required.
5
This distance applies when fields are 5 acres (2ha) or larger in area. For smaller fields, the distances are 900 feet (274.32m) and 450 feet (137.16m) for the Foundation and Registered classes, respectively.
6
Fields of less than 5 acres (2ha) require 330 feet (100.59m).
7
Requirement is waived if the previous crop was grown from certified seed of the same variety.
8
Requirement is waived if the previous crop was of the same variety and of a certified class equal or superior to that of the crop seeded.
9
Reseeding varieties of crimson clover may be allowed to volunteer back year after year on the same ground. If a new variety is being planted where another variety once grew, the field history requirements apply.
10
No isolation is required for the production of hand-pollinated seed.
11
When the contaminant is the same color and texture, the isolation distance may be modified by (1) adequate natural barriers or (2) differential maturity dates, provided there are no receptive silks in the seed parent at the time the contaminant is shedding pollen. In addition, dent sterile popcorn requires no isolation from dent corn.
12
Where the contaminating source is corn of the same color and texture as that of the field inspected or white endosperm-corn optically sorted, the isolation distance is 410 feet (124.97m) and may be modified by the planting of pollen parent border rows according to the following table:
Minimum distance from contaminant
Minimum Numbers of Border Rows Required
Field size, up to 20 acres (8ha)
Field size, 20 acres (8ha) or more
410 (124.97m)
0
0
370 (112.78m)
2 (0.8ha)
1 (0.4ha)
330 (100.59m)
4 (1.6ha)
2 (0.8ha)
290 (88.39m)
6 (2.4ha)
3 (1.2ha)
245 (74.68m)
8 (3.2ha)
4 (1.6ha)
205 (62.48m)
10 (4.0ha)
5 (2.0ha)
165 (50.29m)
12 (4.8ha)
6 (2.4ha)
125 (38.10m)
14 (5.6ha)
7 (2.8ha)
85 (25.91m)
16 (6.4ha)
8 (3.2ha)
0
Not permitted
10 (4.0ha)
13
Refers to off-type plants in the pollen parent that have shed pollen or to the off-type plants in the see parent at the time of the last inspection.
14
The required minimum isolation distance for sweet corn is 660 feet (201.17m) from the contaminating source, plus four border rows when the field to be inspected is 10 acres (4.0ha) or less in size. This distance may be decreased by 15 feet (4.57m) for each increment of 4 acres (1.6ha) in the size of the field to a maximum of 40 acres (16ha) and further decreased 40 feet (12.19m) for each additional border row to a maximum of 16 rows. These border rows are for pollen-shedding purposes only.
15
Refers to off-type ears. Ears with off-colored or different textured kernels are limited to 0.5 percent, or a total of 25 off-colored or different textured kernels per 1,000 ears.
16
The Merion variety of Kentucky bluegrass is allowed 3 percent.
17
All cross-pollinating varieties must be 400 feet (121.92m) from any contaminating source.
18
Isolation between diploids and tetraploids shall be at least 15 feet (4.57m).
19
Minimum isolation shall be at least 100 feet (30.48m) if the cotton plants in the contaminating source differ by easily observable morphological characteristics from the field to be inspected. Isolation distance between upland and Egyptian types shall be at least 1,320 feet (402.34m), 1,320 feet (402.34m), and 660 feet (182.88m) for Foundation, Registered, and Certified classes, respectively.
20
These distances apply when there is no border removal. Border removal applies only to fields of 5 acres (2ha) or more. Removal of a 9-foot (2.7m) border (after flowering) decreases the required distance for Foundation, Registered, and Certified seed classes to 600 feet (182.88m), 225 feet (68.58m), and 100 feet (30.48m), respectively, for cross-pollinated species, and to 30 feet (9.14m), 15 feet (4.57m), and 15 feet (4.57m), respectively, for apomictic and self-pollinated species. Removal of a 15 foot (4.57m) border (after flowering) allows a further decrease to 450 feet (136.16m), 150 feet (45.72m), and 75 feet (22.86m), respectively, for cross-pollinated species.
21
Isolation distances between 2 fields of the same kind may be reduced to a distance adequate to prevent mechanical mixture, if the sum of percentages of plants in bloom in both fields does not exceed 5 percent at a time when more than 1 percent of the plants in either field are in bloom.
22
Refers to bulbs.
23
Distance adequate to prevent mechanical mixture is necessary.
24
Required isolation between classes of the same variety is 10 feet (3.05m).
25
The minimum distance may be reduced by 50 percent if different classes of the same variety are involved.
26
The minimum distance may be reduced by 50 percent if the field is adequately protected by natural or artificial barriers.
27
These ratios are for definite other varieties. The ratios for doubtful other varieties are:
Foundation
Registered
Certified
Millet
1:10,000
1:5,000
1:2,500
Sorghum:
Nonhybrid
1:20,000
1:10,000
1:1,000
Hybrid
1:20,000
NA
1:1,000
Okra
None
1:750
1:500
28
Whiteheart fruits may not exceed 1 per 100, 40, and 20 for Foundation, Registered, and Certified classes, respectively. Citron or hard rind is not permitted in Foundation or Registered classes and may not exceed 1 per 1,000 fruits in the Certified class.
29
This distance applies if the contaminating source does not genetically differ in height from the pollinator parent or has a different chromosome number. If the contaminating source does (genetically) differ and has the same chromosome number the distance shall be 990 feet (301.76m). The minimum isolation from grass sorghum or broomcorn with the same chromosome number shall be 1,320 feet (402.34m).
30
Requirement is waived for the production of pollinator lines if the previous crop was grown from a certified class of seed of the same variety. Sterile lines and crossing blocks must be on land free of contaminating plants.
31
If the contaminating source is similar to the hybrid in all important characteristics, the isolation may be reduced by 66 feet (20.12m) for each pair of border rows of the pollinator parent down to a minimum of 330 feet (100.59m). These rows must be located directly opposite or diagonally to the contaminating source. The pollinator border rows must be shedding pollen during the entire time 5 percent or more of the seed parent flowers are receptive.
32
An unplanted strip at least 2 feet (0.61m) in width shall separate male sterile plants and pollinator plants in inter-planted blocks.
33
Unless the preceding crop was another kind or unless the preceding soybean crop was planted with a class of certified seed of the same variety, or unless the preceding soybean crop and the variety being planted have an identifiable character difference, in which case, no time need elapse.
34
May include not more than 0.04 percent purple or white seeds.
35
Standards apply equally to seed parents and pollen parents which may include up to 1:1,000 plants each of the wild-type branching, purple, or white-seeded plants.
36
A new plant bed must be used each year unless the bed is properly treated with a soil sterilant prior to seeding.
37
This distance is applied between varieties of the same type and may be waived if four border rows of each variety are allowed to bloom and set seed between the two varieties but are not harvested for seed. Isolation between varieties of different types shall be 1,320 feet (402.34m) except if protected by bagging or by topping all plants in the contaminating source before bloom.
38
When male sterile and male fertile plants of the same type are planted adjacent in a field, this requirement may be waived; provided, four border rows of male sterile plants are allowed to bloom and set seeds. The seed from these border rows shall not be harvested as part of the certified lot of seed produced by the male sterile plants. When plants are of different types, the distance shall be 1,320 feet (402.34m) except if protected by bagging or by topping all plants in the contaminating source before bloom.
39
Isolation between varieties or non-certified fields of the same variety shall be 100 feet (30.48m) if aerial seeded and 50 feet (15.24m) if ground broadcast, and 10 feet (3.05m) is ground drilled.
40
Isolation between millets of different genera shall be 6 feet (1.83m).
41
Does not apply to
Helianthus similes, H. ludens,
or
H. agrestis.
42
The ratio of male sterile (A) strains and pollen (B or C) strains shall not exceed 2:1.
43
Parent lines (A and B) in a crossing block, or seed and pollen lines in a hybrid seed production field, shall be separated by at least 6 feet (1.83m) and shall be managed and harvested in a manner to prevent mixing.
44
Distance between fields of certified classes of the same variety may be reduced to 10 feet (3.05m) regardless of the class or size of the fields.
45
An isolation distance of 5,280 feet (1609.36m) is required between oil and non-oil sunflower types and between either type and other volunteers or wild types.
46
Detasseling, cutting, or pulling of the cytoplasmic male-sterile seed parent is permitted.
47
All varieties of perennial ryegrass seed are allowed 3.0 percent.
48
This distance applies for fields over 5 acres (2ha). For alfalfa fields of 5 acres (2ha) or less that produce the Foundation and Registered seed classes, the minimum distance from a different variety or a field of the same variety that does not meet the varietal purity requirements for certification shall be 900 feet (274.32m) and 450 feet (137.16m), respectively.
49
There must be at least 10 feet (3.05m) or a distance adequate to prevent mechanical mixture between a field of another variety (or non-certified area within the same field) and the area being certified. The 165 feet (50.29m) isolation requirement is waived if the area of the “isolation zone” is less than 10 percent of the field eligible for the Certified class. The “isolation zone” is that area calculated by multiplying the length of the common border(s) with other varieties of alfalfa by the average width of the field (being certified) falling within the 165 feet (50.29m) isolation. Areas within the isolation zone nearest the contamination source shall not be certified.
50
Seed of Critana thickspike wheatgrass may contain up to 30 percent slender wheatgrass types.
51
Crossing blocks must be planted on land free of volunteer contaminating plants.
52
This distance applies to the seed parent when the contaminating source is wheat of another market class. If the contaminating source is the same market class as the seed parent, the distance may be modified by the planting of pollen parent border according to the following table:
Minimum distance from contaminant
Feet
Meters
Pollen (parent border)
Feet
Meters
330
100.59
0
0
275
83.82
15
4.57
215
65.53
25
7.62
160
48.77
35
10.67
100
30.48
50
15.24
53
Interplanted blocks of seed parent and pollinator shall be separated by an unplanted strip a minimum of one foot (0.31m) in width and be clearly identifiable.
54
If Foundation or Registered the ratio shall be 1:3000 (Foundation) and 1:2000 (Registered).
55
Does not include seed of the female parent.
56
Pre-Control Test Standards: If field inspection shows one or more of the following, the applicant may request that seed certification be based on the results of a pre-certification grow-out test approved by the certification agency: a. inadequate isolation; b. too few male parent plants shedding pollen when female plants are receptive; c. excess off-types not to include wild types. In such cases, at least 2,000 plants must be observed and meet the following standards before seed can be certified from fields with problems listed above:
[For non-oil types, seed which contains not more than 15 percent sterile plants may be certified. If it contains 85 percent-95 percent hybrid plants, the percentage of hybrid shall be shown on the certification label]
Factor
Maximum Permitted
Hybrid (percent)
Inbred (percent)
Sterile Plants
5.0
Sterile or Fertile Plants
5.0
Morphological Variants
0.5
0.5
Wild Types
0.2
0.2
Total (including above types)
5.0
5.0
57
Application to establish the pedigree must be made within one year of seeding. The crop will remain under supervision of the certifying agency as long as the field is eligible for certification.
58
These distances apply when there is no border removal. Varieties that are 95 percent or more apomictic, as defined by the originating breeder, shall have the isolation distance reduced to a mechanical separation only. Varieties less than 95 percent apomictic and all other cross pollinating species that have an “isolation zone” of less than 10 percent of the entire field, no isolation is required. (Isolation zone is calculated by multiplying the length of the common border with other varieties of grass by the average width of the certified field falling within the isolation distance required.)
59
Indicates metric equivalent in meters.
60
Land must not have grown or been seeded to any cruciferous crops during the previous 5 years. This interval may be reduced to 3 years, if following the same variety and the same or higher certification class.
61
Field producing any class of certified seed must be at least 50 feet from any other variety or fields of the same variety that do not meet the varietal purity requirement for certification.
62
No other Crotalaria species allowed in Foundation, Registered and/or Certified production fields.
63
Refer to the certifying agency in the production State(s) for certification standards.
[59 FR 64516, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 1710, Jan. 11, 2000; 85 FR 40583, July 7, 2020]

# Additional Requirements for the Certification of Plant Materials of Certain Crops
§ 201.77
Length of stand requirements.
(a)
Alfalfa.
Limitations on the age of stand and certified seed classes through which a given variety may be multiplied both inside and outside its region of adaptation shall be specified by the originator or his designee. Certified seed production outside the region of adaptation shall not exceed 6 years if not otherwise specified by the originator, or his designee.
(b)
Red clover.
Only two seed crops are permitted of all certified seed classes.
(c)
White and alsike clover.
Only two successive seed crops are permitted following the year of establishment for Foundation and Registered classes, but 2 additional years are permitted if the field is reclassified to the next lower class. Four successive seed crops following seeding are permitted if the first and succeeding crops are of the Certified class, provided the stand of perennial plants is maintained.
(d)
Sainfoin.
All certified seed classes are eligible to produce five successive seed crops following seeding.
[38 FR 25664, Sept. 14, 1973]
§ 201.78
Pollen control for hybrids.
(a)
Wheat and barley.
Shedders in the seed parent, at any one inspection, are limited to 1:200 heads for Foundation A Line and 1:100 heads for Registered A Line, except that when the A Line is increased outside the area of the anticipated A × R production in order to utilize self-fertility produced by environmental effects, only isolation and genetic purity standards will be in effect. (An A Line is a cytoplasmic male sterile female line used to produce hybrid seed. An R Line is a pollinator line used to pollinate an A Line and to restore fertility in the resulting hybrid seed.)
(b)
Corn.
When 5 percent or more of the seed parent plants have receptive silks, shedding tassels in the seed parent plants shall be limited to 1 percent at any one inspection, or a total of 2 percent at any three inspections on different dates. Shedding tassels are those which have 2 inches or more of the central stem or branches, or any combination thereof, shedding pollen.
(c)
Sorghum.
Shedders in the seed parent, at any one inspection, are limited to 1:3,000 plants for Foundation class and 1:1,500 plants for Certified class.
(d)
Sunflowers.
Seed parents flowering and shedding pollen before the male parents are shedding pollen must be removed. At least 50 percent of the male plants must be producing pollen when the seed parent is in full bloom.
(e)
Hybrid alfalfa.
When at least 75 percent of the plants are in bloom and there is no more than 15 percent seed set, 200 plants shall be examined to determine the pollen production index (PPI). Each plant is rated as 1, 2, 3 or 4 with “1” representing no pollen, “2” representing a trace of pollen, “3” representing substantially less than normal pollen, and “4” representing normal pollen. The rating is weighted as 0, 0.1, 0.6 or 1.0, respectively. The total number of plants of each rating is multiplied by the weighted rating and the values are totaled. The total is divided by the number of plants rated and multiplied by 100 to determine the PPI. For hybrid production using separate male and female rows, the maximum PPI allowed for 95 percent hybrid seed is 14 for the Foundation class, and 6 for the F1 hybrid. For hybrid production using comingled parent lines, the maximum PPI allowed for 75 percent hybrid Certified class seed is 25, with an allowance for blending to reach a PPI of 25 for fields with a PPI above 25, but no greater than 30.
[38 FR 25664, Sept. 14, 1973, as amended at 41 FR 20158, May 17, 1976; 85 FR 40584, July 7, 2020]
Pt. 202

# PART 202—FEDERAL SEED ACT ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
202.1
Meaning of words.
202.2
Definitions.
202.3
Institution of proceedings.
202.4
Status of applicant.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Provisions Applicable to Other Proceedings
202.40
Proceedings prior to reporting for criminal prosecution.
202.41
Notice and hearing prior to promulgation of rules and regulations.
202.42
Publication of judgments, settlements, and orders.
202.43
Proceedings under section 302(a) to show cause why seed or screenings should be admitted into the United States.
202.44
Proceedings under section 305(b) to determine whether foreign alfalfa or red clover seed is not adapted for general agricultural use in the United States.

# Authority:
Secs. 302, 305, 402, 408, 409, 413, 414, 53 Stat. 1275, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 1582, 1585, 1592, 1598, 1599, 1603, 1604.

# Source:
36 FR 1314, Jan. 27, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 202.1
Meaning of words.
As used in this part, words in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may require.
§ 202.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
(a) The term
Act
means the Federal Seed Act, approved August 9, 1939 (53 Stat. 1275, 7 U.S.C. 1551
et seq.
) and any legislation amendatory thereof.
(b)
Complaint
means any formal complaint and notice of hearing or other document by virtue of which a proceeding under the Act is instituted.
(c)
Complainant
means the party upon whose complaint the proceeding is instituted.
(d)
Decision and Order
includes the Secretary's findings, conclusions, order, and rulings on motions, exceptions, statements of objections, and proposed findings, conclusions and orders submitted by the parties not theretofore ruled upon.
(e)
Director
means the Director of the Grain Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority is delegated to act in his stead.
(f)
Administrative Law Judge
means an Administrative Law Judge in the Office of Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(g)
Administrative Law Judge Recommended Decision
means the Administrative Law Judge's report to the Secretary consisting of the proposed: (1) Findings of facts and conclusions with respect to all material issues of fact, law or discretion, as well as the reasons or basis for conclusions and (2) order.
(h) The term
hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence and means either an oral or written hearing.
(i)
Hearing Clerk
means the Hearing Clerk, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
(j) The term
person
includes any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, receiver, or trustee.
(k) The term
regulations
means the regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act (7 CFR part 201).
(l)
Respondent
means the party proceeded against.
(m)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead, including the Judicial Officer.
§ 202.3
Institution of proceedings.
Any person having information of any violation of the Act or of any of the regulations promulgated thereunder may file with the Director an application requesting the institution of such proceedings as may be authorized under the Act. Such application shall be in writing, signed by or on behalf of the applicant, and shall contain a short and simple statement of the facts constituting the alleged violation and the name and address of the applicant and the party complained of. If, after investigation of the matters complained of in the application or after investigation made on his own motion, the Director has reason to believe that any person has violated or is violating any
of the provisions of the Act or the regulations made and promulgated thereunder, he may institute such proceedings as may be authorized by the Act.
§ 202.4
Status of applicant.
The person filing an application shall not be a party to any proceeding which may be instituted under the Act, unless he be permitted by the Secretary or by the Administrative Law Judge to intervene therein. The Director shall not be required to divulge the name of the applicant and such person will have no legal status in the proceeding which may be instituted, except where allowed to intervene or as such person may be called as a witness. At any time after the institution of the proceeding, and before it has been submitted to the Secretary for final consideration, the Secretary or the Administrator, may upon petition in writing and upon good cause shown, permit any person to intervene.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Provisions Applicable to Other Proceedings
§ 202.40
Proceedings prior to reporting for criminal prosecution.
The Director shall, before any violation of this act is reported to any U.S. attorney for institution of a criminal proceeding, notify the person against whom such proceeding is contemplated that action is contemplated, inform him regarding the facts involved, and afford him an opportunity to present his views, either orally or in writing, with regard to such contemplated proceeding. Notice shall be served upon such person in the manner provided in § 202.27 of this part. If the person desires to explain the transaction or otherwise to present his views, he shall file with the Director, within 20 days after the service of the notice, an answer, in duplicate, signed by him or by his attorney, or shall request, within the 20 days, an opportunity to express his views orally. The request shall be embodied in a writing signed by the person or by his attorney or agent. Such opportunity to present his views orally shall be afforded at a time and place to be designated by the Director and it shall be given within a time not to exceed 10 days after the date of the filing of the request therefor.
§ 202.41
Notice and hearing prior to promulgation of rules and regulations.
Prior to the promulgation of any rule or regulation contemplated by section 402 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1592), notice shall be given by publication in the
Federal Register
of intention to promulgate such rule or regulation and of the time and place of a public hearing to be held with reference thereto. Such hearings shall be conducted by the Director or by such employee or employees of the Department of Agriculture as may be designated to preside thereat, except that hearings with respect to rules or regulations contemplated by section 402(b) of the Act relating to title III of the Act (Foreign Commerce), shall be conducted by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture, acting jointly or separately, or by such employee or employees of the Department of Agriculture or the Department of the Treasury as may be designated to preside thereat. The presiding officer shall conduct the hearing in an orderly and informal manner, according to such procedure as he may announce at the commencement of the hearing. Any rule or regulation promulgated under section 402 of the Act shall become effective on the date fixed in the promulgation, which date shall be not less than 30 days after publication in the
Federal Register.
Any rule or regulation may be amended or revoked in the same manner as is provided for its promulgation.
§ 202.42
Publication of judgments, settlements, and orders.
After judgment or settlement, or the issuance of a cease and desist order, in any case or proceeding arising under this Act, notice thereof containing any information pertinent to the judgment or settlement or the issuance of the cease and desist order, shall be given by issuing a press release or by such other media as the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service may designate from time to time.
§ 202.43
Proceedings under section 302(a) to show cause why seed or screenings should be admitted into the United States.
When seed or screenings have been refused admission into the United States under the Act or the joint regulations promulgated thereunder, the owner or consignee of such seed or screenings may submit a request to the Director for a hearing in which he may show cause, if any he have, why such seed or screenings should be admitted. Request for such hearing shall be embodied in a writing signed by the owner or consignee or by his attorney or agent. The Director shall thereupon fix, and notify the owner or consignee of, the time when and place at which the hearing will be held. The hearing shall be conducted in an orderly and informal manner by the Director or by a presiding officer duly designated by him, and it shall be governed by such rules of procedure as the presiding officer shall announce at the opening of the hearing. The determination as to whether the seed or screenings may be admitted into the United States shall be made by the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, within a reasonable time after the close of the hearing, and the owner or consignee of the seed or screenings who requested the hearing and the Secretary of the Treasury shall be duly notified as to such determination.
§ 202.44
Proceedings under section 305(b) to determine whether foreign alfalfa or red clover seed is not adapted for general agricultural use in the United States.
The public hearings which shall be held from time to time for the purpose of determining whether seed of alfalfa or red clover from any foreign country or region is not adapted for general agricultural use in the United States shall be conducted by the Director, or by a presiding officer duly designated by him. Such hearings shall be conducted in an orderly and informal manner in accordance with such procedure as the presiding officer shall announce at the opening of each hearing. The Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service shall, within a reasonable time after the close of the public hearing, make and publish his determination as to whether the said seed is adapted for general agricultural use in the United States. Publication of the determination shall be made in the
Federal Register,
and through such other media as the said Administrator may deem appropriate.
PARTS 203-204 [RESERVED]
SUBCHAPTER L—REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO PURCHASES [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER M—ORGANIC FOODS PRODUCTION ACT PROVISIONS
Pt. 205

# PART 205—NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
205.1
Meaning of words.
205.2
Terms defined.
205.3
Incorporation by reference.

# Subpart B—Applicability
205.100
What has to be certified.
205.101
Exemptions from certification.
205.102
Use of the term, “organic.”
205.103
Recordkeeping by certified operations.
205.104
[Reserved]
205.105
Allowed and prohibited substances, methods, and ingredients in organic production and handling.
205.106-205.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Organic Production and Handling Requirements
205.200
General.
205.201
Organic production and handling system plan.
205.202
Land requirements.
205.203
Soil fertility and crop nutrient management practice standard.
205.204
Seeds and planting stock practice standard.
205.205
Crop rotation practice standard.
205.206
Crop pest, weed, and disease management practice standard.
205.207
Wild-crop harvesting practice standard.
205.208-205.209
[Reserved]
205.210
Mushroom production practice standard.
205.211-205.235
[Reserved]
205.236
Origin of livestock.
205.237
Livestock feed.
205.238
Livestock care and production practices standard.
205.239
Livestock living conditions.
205.240
Pasture practice standard.
205.241
Avian living conditions.
205.242
Transport and slaughter.
205.243-205.269
[Reserved]
205.270
Organic handling requirements.
205.271
Facility pest management practice standard.
205.272
Commingling and contact with prohibited substance prevention practice standard.
205.273
Imports to the United States.
205.274-205.289
[Reserved]
205.290
Temporary variances.
205.291-205.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Labels, Labeling, and Market Information
205.300
Use of the term, “organic.”
205.301
Product composition.
205.302
Calculating the percentage of organically produced ingredients.
205.303
Packaged products labeled “100 percent organic” or “organic.”
205.304
Packaged products labeled “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
205.305
Multiingredient packaged products with less that 70 percent organically produced ingredients.
205.306
Labeling of livestock feed.
205.307
Labeling of nonretail containers.
205.308
Agricultural products in other than packaged form at the point of retail sale that are sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic” or “organic.”
205.309
Agricultural products in other than packaged form at the point of retail sale that are sold, labeled, or represented as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
205.310
Agricultural products produced or processed by an exempt operation.
205.311
USDA Seal.
205.312-205.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Certification
205.400
General requirements for certification.
205.401
Application for certification.
205.402
Review of application.
205.403
On-site inspections.
205.404
Granting certification.
205.405
Denial of certification.
205.406
Continuation of certification.
205.407-205.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Accreditation of Certifying Agents
205.500
Areas and duration of accreditation.
205.501
General requirements for accreditation.
205.502
Applying for accreditation.
205.503
Applicant information.
205.504
Evidence of expertise and ability.
205.505
Statement of agreement.
205.506
Granting accreditation.
205.507
Denial of accreditation.
205.508
Site evaluations.
205.509
Peer review panel.
205.510
Annual report, recordkeeping, and renewal of accreditation.
205.511
Accepting foreign conformity assessment systems.
205.512-205.599
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Administrative

# The National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances
205.600
Evaluation criteria for allowed and prohibited substances, methods, and ingredients.
205.601
Synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production.
205.602
Nonsynthetic substances prohibited for use in organic crop production.
205.603
Synthetic substances allowed for use in organic livestock production.
205.604
Nonsynthetic substances prohibited for use in organic livestock production.
205.605
Nonagricultural (nonorganic) substances allowed as ingredients in or on processed products labeled as “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
205.606
Nonorganically produced agricultural products allowed as ingredients in or on processed products labeled as “organic.”
205.607
Amending the National List.
205.608-205.619
[Reserved]

# State Organic Programs
205.620
Requirements of State organic programs.
205.621
Submission and determination of proposed State organic programs and amendments to approved State organic programs.
205.622
Review of approved State organic programs.
205.623-205.639
[Reserved]

# Fees
205.640
Fees and other charges for accreditation.
205.641
Payment of fees and other charges.
205.642
Fees and other charges for certification.
205.643-205.649
[Reserved]

# Compliance
205.660
General.
205.661
Investigation.
205.662
Noncompliance procedure for certified operations.
205.663
Mediation.
205.664
[Reserved]
205.665
Noncompliance procedure for certifying agents.
205.666-205.667
[Reserved]
205.668
Noncompliance procedures under State Organic Programs.
205.699
[Reserved]

# Inspection and Testing, Reporting, and Exclusion from Sale
205.670
Inspection and testing of agricultural products to be sold or labeled as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
205.671
Exclusion from organic sale.
205.672
Emergency pest or disease treatment.
205.673-205.679
[Reserved]

# Adverse Action Appeal Process
205.680
General.
205.681
Appeals.
205.682-205.689
[Reserved]

# Miscellaneous
205.690
OMB control number.
205.691
Severability.
205.692-205.699
[Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6501-6524.

# Source:
65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 205.1
Meaning of words.
For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart, words in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand.
§ 205.2
Terms defined.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 104392, Dec. 23, 2024.
Accreditation.
A determination made by the Secretary that authorizes a private, foreign, or State entity to conduct certification activities as a certifying agent under this part.
Act.
The Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, as amended (7 U.S.C. 6501
et seq.
).
Action level.
The limit at or above which the Food and Drug Administration will take legal action against a product to remove it from the market. Action levels are based on unavoidability of the poisonous or deleterious substances and do not represent permissible levels of contamination where it is avoidable.
Administrator.
The Administrator for the Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Departure of Agriculture, or the representative to whom authority has been delegated to act in the stead of the Administrator.
Adverse action.
A noncompliance decision that adversely affects certification, accreditation, or a person subject to the Act, including a proposed suspension or revocation; a denial of certification, accreditation, or reinstatement; a cease and desist notice; or a civil penalty.
Agricultural inputs.
All substances or materials used in the production or handling of organic agricultural products.
Agricultural product.
Any agricultural commodity or product, whether raw or processed, including any commodity or product derived from livestock, that is marketed in the United States for human or livestock consumption.
Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS).
The Agricultural Marketing Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Allowed synthetic.
A substance that is included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic production or handling.
AMDUCA.
The Animal Medicinal Drug Use Clarification Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-396).
Animal drug.
Any drug as defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 321), that is intended for use in livestock, including any drug intended for use in livestock feed but not including such livestock feed.
Annual seedling.
A plant grown from seed that will complete its life cycle or produce a harvestable yield within the same crop year or season in which it was planted.
Area of operation.
The types of operations: crops, livestock, wild-crop harvesting or handling, or any combination thereof that a certifying agent may be accredited to certify under this part.
Audit trail.
Documentation that is sufficient to determine the source, transfer of ownership, and transportation of any agricultural product labeled as “100 percent organic,” the organic ingredients of any agricultural product labeled as “organic” or “made with organic (specified ingredients)” or the organic ingredients of any agricultural product containing less than 70 percent organic ingredients identified as organic in an ingredients statement.
Beak trimming.
The removal of not more than one-quarter to one-third of the upper beak or the removal of one-quarter to one-third of both the upper and lower beaks of a bird in order to control injurious pecking and cannibalism.
Biodegradable.
Subject to biological decomposition into simpler biochemical or chemical components.
Biodegradable biobased mulch film.
A synthetic mulch film that meets the following criteria:
(1) Meets the compostability specifications of one of the following standards: ASTM D6400, ASTM D6868, EN 13432, EN 14995, or ISO 17088 (all incorporated by reference; see § 205.3);
(2) Demonstrates at least 90% biodegradation absolute or relative to microcrystalline cellulose in less than two years, in soil, according to one of the following test methods: ISO 17556 or ASTM D5988 (both incorporated by reference; see § 205.3); and
(3) Must be biobased with content determined using ASTM D6866 (incorporated by reference; see § 205.3).
Biologics.
All viruses, serums, toxins, and analogous products of natural or synthetic origin, such as diagnostics, antitoxins, vaccines, live microorganisms, killed microorganisms, and the antigenic or immunizing components of microorganisms intended for use in the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of diseases of animals.
Breeder stock.
Female livestock whose offspring may be incorporated into an organic operation at the time of their birth.
Buffer zone.
An area located between a certified production operation or portion of a production operation and an adjacent land area that is not maintained under organic management. A buffer zone must be sufficient in size or other features (e.g., windbreaks or a diversion ditch) to prevent the possibility of unintended contact by prohibited substances applied to adjacent land areas with an area that is part of a certified operation.
Bulk.
The presentation to consumers at retail sale of an agricultural product in unpackaged, loose form, enabling the consumer to determine the individual pieces, amount, or volume of the product purchased.
Caponization.
Castration of chickens, turkeys, pheasants, and other avian species.
Cattle wattling.
The surgical separation of two layers of the skin from the connective tissue along a 2-to-4-inch path on the dewlap, neck, or shoulders used for ownership identification.
Certification activity.
Any business conducted by a certifying agent, or by a person acting on behalf of a certifying agent, including but not limited to: certification management; administration; application review; inspection planning; inspections; sampling; inspection report review; material review; label review; records retention; compliance review; investigating complaints and taking adverse actions; certification decisions; and issuing transaction certificates.
Certification office.
Any site or facility where certification activities are conducted, except for certification activities that occur at certified operations or applicants for certification, such as inspections and sampling.
Certification or certified.
A determination made by a certifying agent that a production or handling operation is in compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part, which is documented by a certificate of organic operation.
Certification review.
The act of reviewing and evaluating a certified operation or applicant for certification and determining compliance or ability to comply with the USDA organic regulations. This does not include performing an inspection.
Certified operation.
A crop or livestock production, wild-crop harvesting or handling operation, or portion of such operation that is certified by an accredited certifying agent as utilizing a system of organic production or handling as described by the Act and the regulations in this part.
Certifying agent.
Any entity accredited by the Secretary as a certifying agent for the purpose of certifying a production or handling operation as a certified production or handling operation.
Certifying agent's operation.
All sites, facilities, personnel, and records used by a certifying agent to conduct certification activities under the Act and the regulations in this part.
Claims.
Oral, written, implied, or symbolic representations, statements, or advertising or other forms of communication presented to the public or buyers of agricultural products that relate to the organic certification process or the term, “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” or, in the case of agricultural products containing less than 70 percent organic ingredients, the term, “organic,” on the ingredients panel.
Class of animal.
A group of livestock that shares a similar stage of life or production. The classes of animals are those that are commonly listed on feed labels.
Commercially available.
The ability to obtain a production input in an appropriate form, quality, or quantity to fulfill an essential function in a system of organic production or handling, as determined by the certifying agent in the course of reviewing the organic plan.
Commingling.
Physical contact between unpackaged organically produced and nonorganically produced agricultural products during production, processing, transportation, storage or handling, other than during the manufacture of a multiingredient product containing both types of ingredients.
Compost.
The product of a managed process through which microorganisms break down plant and animal materials into more available forms suitable for application to the soil. Compost must be produced through a process that combines plant and animal materials with an initial C:N ratio of between 25:1 and 40:1. Producers using an in-vessel or static aerated pile system must maintain the composting materials at a temperature between 131 °F and 170 °F for 3 days. Producers using a windrow system must maintain the composting materials at a temperature between 131 °F and 170 °F for 15 days, during which time, the materials must be turned a minimum of five times.
Conformity assessment system.
All activities, including oversight, accreditation, compliance review, and enforcement, undertaken by a government to
ensure that the applicable technical requirements for the production and handling of organic agricultural products are fully and consistently applied.
Control.
Any method that reduces or limits damage by populations of pests, weeds, or diseases to levels that do not significantly reduce productivity.
Crop.
Pastures, cover crops, green manure crops, catch crops, or any plant or part of a plant intended to be marketed as an agricultural product, fed to livestock, or used in the field to manage nutrients and soil fertility.
Crop residues.
The plant parts remaining in a field after the harvest of a crop, which include stalks, stems, leaves, roots, and weeds.
Crop rotation.
The practice of alternating the annual crops grown on a specific field in a planned pattern or sequence in successive crop years so that crops of the same species or family are not grown repeatedly without interruption on the same field. Perennial cropping systems employ means such as alley cropping, intercropping, and hedgerows to introduce biological diversity in lieu of crop rotation.
Crop year.
That normal growing season for a crop as determined by the Secretary.
Cultivation.
Digging up or cutting the soil to prepare a seed bed; control weeds; aerate the soil; or work organic matter, crop residues, or fertilizers into the soil.
Cultural methods.
Methods used to enhance crop health and prevent weed, pest, or disease problems without the use of substances; examples include the selection of appropriate varieties and planting sites; proper timing and density of plantings; irrigation; and extending a growing season by manipulating the microclimate with green houses, cold frames, or wind breaks.
De-beaking.
The removal of more than one-third of the upper beak or removal of more than one-third of both the upper and lower beaks of a bird.
De-snooding.
The removal of the turkey snood (a fleshy protuberance on the forehead of male turkeys).
Detectable residue.
The amount or presence of chemical residue or sample component that can be reliably observed or found in the sample matrix by current approved analytical methodology.
Disease vectors.
Plants or animals that harbor or transmit disease organisms or pathogens which may attack crops or livestock.
Drift.
The physical movement of prohibited substances from the intended target site onto an organic operation or portion thereof.
Dry lot.
A fenced area that may be covered with concrete, but that has little or no vegetative cover.
Dry matter.
The amount of a feedstuff remaining after all the free moisture is evaporated out.
Dry matter demand.
The expected dry matter intake for a class of animal.
Dry matter intake.
Total pounds of all feed, devoid of all moisture, consumed by a class of animals over a given period of time.
Dubbing.
The removal of poultry combs and wattles.
Emergency pest or disease treatment program.
A mandatory program authorized by a Federal, State, or local agency for the purpose of controlling or eradicating a pest or disease.
Employee.
Any person providing paid or volunteer services for a certifying agent.
Excipients.
Any ingredients that are intentionally added to livestock medications but do not exert therapeutic or diagnostic effects at the intended dosage, although they may act to improve product delivery (e.g., enhancing absorption or controlling release of the drug substance). Examples of such ingredients include fillers, extenders, diluents, wetting agents, solvents, emulsifiers, preservatives, flavors, absorption enhancers, sustained-release matrices, and coloring agents.
Excluded methods.
A variety of methods used to genetically modify organisms or influence their growth and development by means that are not possible under natural conditions or processes and are not considered compatible with organic production. Such methods include cell fusion, microencapsulation and macroencapsulation, and recombinant DNA technology (including gene deletion, gene doubling, introducing a foreign gene, and changing the positions of genes when
achieved by recombinant DNA technology). Such methods do not include the use of traditional breeding, conjugation, fermentation, hybridization, in vitro fertilization, or tissue culture.
Feed.
Edible materials which are consumed by livestock for their nutritional value. Feed may be concentrates (grains) or roughages (hay, silage, fodder). The term, “feed,” encompasses all agricultural commodities, including pasture ingested by livestock for nutritional purposes.
Feed additive.
A substance added to feed in micro quantities to fulfill a specific nutritional need; i.e., essential nutrients in the form of amino acids, vitamins, and minerals.
Feedlot.
A dry lot for the controlled feeding of livestock.
Feed supplement.
A combination of feed nutrients added to livestock feed to improve the nutrient balance or performance of the total ration and intended to be:
(1) Diluted with other feeds when fed to livestock;
(2) Offered free choice with other parts of the ration if separately available; or
(3) Further diluted and mixed to produce a complete feed.
Fertilizer.
A single or blended substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrient(s) which is used primarily for its plant nutrient content and which is designed for use or claimed to have value in promoting plant growth.
Field.
An area of land identified as a discrete unit within a production operation.
Forage.
Vegetative material in a fresh, dried, or ensiled state (pasture, hay, or silage), which is fed to livestock.
Governmental entity.
Any domestic government, tribal government, or foreign governmental subdivision providing certification services.
Graze.
(1) The consumption of standing or residual forage by livestock.
(2) To put livestock to feed on standing or residual forage.
Grazing.
To graze.
Grazing season.
The period of time when pasture is available for grazing, due to natural precipitation or irrigation. Grazing season dates may vary because of mid-summer heat/humidity, significant precipitation events, floods, hurricanes, droughts or winter weather events. Grazing season may be extended by the grazing of residual forage as agreed in the operation's organic system plan. Due to weather, season, or climate, the grazing season may or may not be continuous. Grazing season may range from 120 days to 365 days, but not less than 120 days per year.
Handle.
To sell, process, or package agricultural products, including but not limited to trading, facilitating sale or trade on behalf of a seller or oneself, importing to the United States, exporting for sale in the United States, combining, aggregating, culling, conditioning, treating, packing, containerizing, repackaging, labeling, storing, receiving, or loading.
Handler.
Any person that handles agricultural products, except final retailers of agricultural products that do not process agricultural products.
Handling operation.
Any operation that handles agricultural products, except final retailers of agricultural products that do not process agricultural products.
Immediate family.
The spouse, minor children, or blood relatives who reside in the immediate household of a certifying agent or an employee, inspector, contractor, or other personnel of the certifying agent. For the purpose of this part, the interest of a spouse, minor child, or blood relative who is a resident of the immediate household of a certifying agent or an employee, inspector, contractor, or other personnel of the certifying agent shall be considered to be an interest of the certifying agent or an employee, inspector, contractor, or other personnel of the certifying agent.
Inclement weather.
Weather that is violent, or characterized by temperatures (high or low), or characterized by excessive precipitation that can cause physical harm to a given species of livestock. Production yields or growth rates of livestock lower than the maximum achievable do not qualify as physical harm.
Indoors or indoor space.
The space inside of an enclosed building or housing structure available to livestock. Indoor
space for avian species includes, but is not limited to:
(1)
Mobile housing.
A mobile structure for avian species with solid or perforated flooring that is moved regularly and allows birds to continuously access areas outside the structure during daytime hours.
(2)
Aviary housing.
A fixed structure for avian species that has multiple tiers or levels.
(3)
Slatted/mesh floor housing.
A fixed structure for avian species that has both: a slatted floor where perches, feed, and water are provided over a pit or belt for manure collection; and litter covering the remaining solid floor.
(4)
Floor litter housing.
A fixed structure for avian species that has absorbent litter covering the entire floor.
Induced molting.
Molting that is artificially initiated.
Inert ingredient.
Any substance (or group of substances with similar chemical structures if designated by the Environmental Protection Agency) other than an active ingredient which is intentionally included in any pesticide product (40 CFR 152.3(m)).
Information panel.
That part of the label of a packaged product that is immediately contiguous to and to the right of the principal display panel as observed by an individual facing the principal display panel, unless another section of the label is designated as the information panel because of package size or other package attributes (e.g., irregular shape with one usable surface).
Ingredient.
Any substance used in the preparation of an agricultural product that is still present in the final commercial product as consumed.
Ingredients statement.
The list of ingredients contained in a product shown in their common and usual names in the descending order of predominance.
Inspection.
The act of examining and evaluating the production or handling operation of an applicant for certification or certified operation to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
Inspector.
Any person retained or used by a certifying agent to conduct inspections of certification applicants or certified production or handling operations.
Internal control system.
An internal quality management system that establishes and governs the review, monitoring, training, and inspection of the producer group operation, and the procurement and distribution of shared production and handling inputs and resources, to maintain compliance with the USDA organic regulations.
Label.
A display of written, printed, or graphic material on the immediate container of an agricultural product or any such material affixed to any agricultural product or affixed to a bulk container containing an agricultural product, except for package liners or a display of written, printed, or graphic material which contains only information about the weight of the product.
Labeling.
All written, printed, or graphic material accompanying an agricultural product at any time or written, printed, or graphic material about the agricultural product displayed at retail stores about the product.
Livestock.
Any cattle, sheep, goats, swine, poultry, or equine animals used for food or in the production of food, fiber, feed, or other agricultural-based consumer products; wild or domesticated game; or other nonplant life, except such term shall not include aquatic animals for the production of food, fiber, feed, or other agricultural-based consumer products.
Lot.
Any number of containers which contain an agricultural product of the same kind located in the same conveyance, warehouse, or packing house and which are available for inspection at the same time.
Manure.
Feces, urine, other excrement, and bedding produced by livestock that has not been composted.
Market information.
Any written, printed, audiovisual, or graphic information, including advertising, pamphlets, flyers, catalogues, posters, and signs, distributed, broadcast, or made available outside of retail outlets that are used to assist in the sale or promotion of a product.
Mulch.
Any nonsynthetic material, such as wood chips, leaves, or straw, or any synthetic material included on the National List for such use, such as newspaper or plastic that serves to suppress weed growth, moderate soil temperature, or conserve soil moisture.
Mulesing.
The removal of skin from the buttocks of sheep, approximately 2 to 4 inches wide and running away from the anus to the hock to prevent fly strike.
Narrow range oils.
Petroleum derivatives, predominately of paraffinic and napthenic fractions with 50 percent boiling point (10 mm Hg) between 415 °F and 440 °F.
National List.
A list of allowed and prohibited substances as provided for in the Act.
National Organic Program (NOP).
The program authorized by the Act for the purpose of implementing its provisions.
National Organic Standards Board (NOSB).
A board established by the Secretary under 7 U.S.C. 6518 to assist in the development of standards for substances to be used in organic production and to advise the Secretary on any other aspects of the implementation of the National Organic Program.
Natural resources of the operation.
The physical, hydrological, and biological features of a production operation, including soil, water, wetlands, woodlands, and wildlife.
Nonagricultural substance.
A substance that is not a product of agriculture, such as a mineral or a bacterial culture, that is used as an ingredient in an agricultural product. For the purposes of this part, a nonagricultural ingredient also includes any substance, such as gums, citric acid, or pectin, that is extracted from, isolated from, or a fraction of an agricultural product so that the identity of the agricultural product is unrecognizable in the extract, isolate, or fraction.
Non-ambulatory.
As defined in 9 CFR 309.2(b).
Nonsynthetic (natural).
A substance that is derived from mineral, plant, or animal matter and does not undergo a synthetic process as defined in section 6502(21) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 6502(21)). For the purposes of this part, nonsynthetic is used as a synonym for natural as the term is used in the Act.
Nonretail container.
Any container used for shipping or storage of an agricultural product that is not used in the retail display or sale of the product.
Nontoxic.
Not known to cause any adverse physiological effects in animals, plants, humans, or the environment.
Organic.
A labeling term that refers to an agricultural product produced in accordance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
Organic exporter.
The final certified exporter of the organic agricultural product, who facilitates the trade of, consigns, or arranges for the transport/shipping of the organic agricultural product from a foreign country to the United States.
Organic fraud.
Deceptive representation, sale, or labeling of nonorganic agricultural products or ingredients as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
Organic importer.
The operation responsible for accepting imported organic agricultural products within the United States and ensuring NOP Import Certificate data are entered into the U.S. Customs and Border Protection import system of record.
Organic Integrity Database.
The National Organic Program's electronic, web-based reporting tool for the submission of data, completion of certificates of organic operation, and other information, or the tool's successors.
Organic management.
Management of a production or handling operation in compliance with all applicable provisions under this part.
Organic matter.
The remains, residues, or waste products of any organism.
Organic production.
A production system that is managed in accordance with the Act and regulations in this part to respond to site-specific conditions by integrating cultural, biological, and mechanical practices that foster cycling of resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity.
Organic system plan.
A plan of management of an organic production or handling operation that has been agreed to by the producer or handler and the certifying agent and that includes written plans concerning all aspects of agricultural production or handling described in the Act and the regulations in subpart C of this part.
Outdoors or outdoor space.
Any area outside an enclosed building or enclosed housing structure. Enclosed housing structures with open sides
(e.g., open-sided freestall barns) are not to be considered outdoors or outdoor space. Outdoor space for avian species includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Pasture pens (avian). Floorless pens, with full or partial roofing, that are moved regularly, provide direct access to soil and vegetation, and allow birds to express natural behaviors.
(2) Shade structures that are not enclosed.
Paper-based crop planting aid.
A material that is comprised of at least 60% cellulose-based fiber by weight, including, but not limited to, pots, seed tape, and collars that are placed in or on the soil and later incorporated into the soil, excluding biodegradable mulch film. Up to 40% of the ingredients can be nonsynthetic, other permitted synthetic ingredients in § 205.601(j), or synthetic strengthening fibers, adhesives, or resins. Contains no less than 80% biobased content as verified by a qualified third-party assessment (e.g., laboratory test using ASTM D6866 or composition review by qualified personnel).
Pasture.
Land used for livestock grazing that is managed to provide feed value and maintain or improve soil, water, and vegetative resources.
Peer review panel.
A panel of individuals who have expertise in organic production and handling methods and certification procedures and who are appointed by the Administrator to assist in evaluating applicants for accreditation as certifying agents.
Perch.
A rod- or branch-type structure above the floor or ground that accommodates roosting and allows birds to utilize vertical space.
Person.
An individual, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or other entity.
Pesticide.
Any substance which alone, in chemical combination, or in any formulation with one or more substances is defined as a pesticide in section 2(u) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136(u)
et seq
).
Petition.
A request to amend the National List that is submitted by any person in accordance with this part.
Planting stock.
Any plant or plant tissue other than annual seedlings but including rhizomes, shoots, leaf or stem cuttings, roots, or tubers, used in plant production or propagation.
Practice standard.
The guidelines and requirements through which a production or handling operation implements a required component of its production or handling organic system plan. A practice standard includes a series of allowed and prohibited actions, materials, and conditions to establish a minimum level performance for planning, conducting, and maintaining a function, such as livestock health care or facility pest management, essential to an organic operation.
Principal display panel.
That part of a label that is most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under customary conditions of display for sale.
Private entity.
Any domestic or foreign nongovernmental for-profit or not-for-profit organization providing certification services.
Processing.
Cooking, baking, curing, heating, drying, mixing, grinding, churning, separating, extracting, slaughtering, cutting, fermenting, distilling, eviscerating, preserving, dehydrating, freezing, chilling, or otherwise manufacturing and includes the packaging, canning, jarring, or otherwise enclosing food in a container.
Processing aid.
(1) Substance that is added to a food during the processing of such food but is removed in some manner from the food before it is packaged in its finished form;
(2) a substance that is added to a food during processing, is converted into constituents normally present in the food, and does not significantly increase the amount of the constituents naturally found in the food; and
(3) a substance that is added to a food for its technical or functional effect in the processing but is present in the finished food at insignificant levels and does not have any technical or functional effect in that food.
Producer.
A person who engages in the business of growing or producing food, fiber, feed, and other agricultural-based consumer products.
Producer group member.
An individual engaged in the activity of producing or harvesting agricultural products as a member of a producer group operation.
Producer group operation.
A producer, organized as a person, consisting of producer group members and production units in geographic proximity governed by an internal control system under one organic system plan and certification.
Producer group production unit.
A defined subgroup of producer group members in geographic proximity within a single producer group operation that use shared practices and resources to produce similar agricultural products.
Production lot number/identifier.
Identification of a product based on the production sequence of the product showing the date, time, and place of production used for quality control purposes.
Prohibited substance.
A substance the use of which in any aspect of organic production or handling is prohibited or not provided for in the Act or the regulations of this part.
Pullets.
Female chickens or other avian species being raised for egg production that have not yet started to lay eggs.
Records.
Any information in written, visual, or electronic form that documents the activities undertaken by a producer, handler, or certifying agent to comply with the Act and regulations in this part.
Religious (or ritual) slaughter.
Slaughtering in accordance with the ritual requirements of any religious faith that prescribes a method of slaughter whereby the animal suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by the simultaneous and instantaneous severance of the carotid arteries with a sharp instrument and handling in connection with such slaughtering.
Residual forage.
Forage cut and left to lie, or windrowed and left to lie, in place in the pasture.
Residue testing.
An official or validated analytical procedure that detects, identifies, and measures the presence of chemical substances, their metabolites, or degradation products in or on raw or processed agricultural products.
Responsibly connected.
Any person who is a partner, officer, director, holder, manager, or owner of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an applicant or a recipient of certification or accreditation.
Retail establishment.
Restaurants, delicatessens, bakeries, grocery stores, or any retail business with a restaurant, delicatessen, bakery, salad bar, bulk food self-service station, or other eat-in, carry-out, mail-order, or delivery service of raw or processed agricultural products.
Routine use of parasiticide.
The regular, planned, or periodic use of parasiticides.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture or a representative to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
Sewage sludge.
A solid, semisolid, or liquid residue generated during the treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works. Sewage sludge includes but is not limited to: domestic septage; scum or solids removed in primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes; and a material derived from sewage sludge. Sewage sludge does not include ash generated during the firing of sewage sludge in a sewage sludge incinerator or grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works.
Shelter.
Structures such as barns, sheds, or windbreaks; or natural areas such as woods, tree lines, large hedge rows, or geographic land features, that are designed or selected to provide physical protection or housing to all animals.
Slaughter stock.
Any animal that is intended to be slaughtered for consumption by humans or other animals.
Soil and water quality.
Observable indicators of the physical, chemical, or biological condition of soil and water, including the presence of environmental contaminants.
Split operation.
An operation that produces or handles both organic and nonorganic agricultural products.
Stage of life.
A discrete time period in an animal's life which requires specific management practices different than during other periods (e.g., poultry during feathering). Breeding, freshening, lactation and other recurring events are not a stage of life.
State.
Any of the several States of the United States of America, its territories, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State certifying agent.
A certifying agent accredited by the Secretary under the National Organic Program and operated by the State for the purposes of certifying organic production and handling operations in the State.
State organic program (SOP).
A State program that meets the requirements of section 6506 of the Act, is approved by the Secretary, and is designed to ensure that a product that is sold or labeled as organically produced under the Act is produced and handled using organic methods.
State organic program's governing State official.
The chief executive official of a State or, in the case of a State that provides for the statewide election of an official to be responsible solely for the administration of the agricultural operations of the State, such official who administers a State organic certification program.
Stocking density.
The liveweight or number of animals on a given area or unit of land.
Supply chain traceability audit.
The process of identifying and tracking the movement, sale, custody, handling, and organic status of an agricultural product along a supply chain to verify the agricultural product's compliance with this part.
Synthetic.
A substance that is formulated or manufactured by a chemical process or by a process that chemically changes a substance extracted from naturally occurring plant, animal, or mineral sources, except that such term shall not apply to substances created by naturally occurring biological processes.
Technical requirements.
A system of relevant laws, regulations, regulatory practices, standards, policies, and procedures that address the certification, production, and handling of organic agricultural products.
Temporary and Temporarily.
Occurring for a limited time only (e.g., overnight, throughout a storm, during a period of illness, the period of time specified by the Administrator when granting a temporary variance), not permanent or lasting.
Third-year transitional crop.
Crops and forage from land included in the organic system plan of a producer's operation that is not certified organic but is in the third year of organic management and is eligible for organic certification in one year or less.
Toe clipping.
The removal of the nail and distal joint of the back two toes of a bird.
Tolerance.
The maximum legal level of a pesticide chemical residue in or on a raw or processed agricultural commodity or processed food.
Transitioned animal.
A dairy animal converted to organic milk production in accordance with § 205.236(a)(2) that has not been under continuous organic management from the last third of gestation; offspring born to a transitioned animal that, during its last third of gestation, consumes third-year transitional crops; and offspring born during the one-time transition exception that themselves consume third-year transitional crops.
Transplant.
A seedling which has been removed from its original place of production, transported, and replanted.
Unannounced inspection.
The act of examining and evaluating all or a portion of the production or handling activities of a certified operation without advance notice to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
Unavoidable residual environmental contamination (UREC).
Background levels of naturally occurring or synthetic chemicals that are present in the soil or present in organically produced agricultural products that are below established tolerances.
Vegetation.
Living plant matter that is anchored in the soil by roots and provides ground cover.
Wild crop.
Any plant or portion of a plant that is collected or harvested from a site that is not maintained under cultivation or other agricultural management.
Yards/Feeding pad.
An area for feeding, exercising, and outdoor access for
livestock during the non-grazing season and a high traffic area where animals may receive supplemental feeding during the grazing season.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 70484, Dec. 12, 2007; 75 FR 7192, Feb. 17, 2010; 79 FR 58662, Sept. 30, 2014; 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015; 87 FR 19772, Apr. 5, 2022; 87 FR 68027, Nov. 14, 2022; 88 FR 3620, Jan. 19, 2023; 88 FR 75444, Nov. 2, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]
§ 205.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 104392, Dec. 23, 2024, § 205.2 was amended, effective Feb. 21, 2025, by:
a. Revising the definitions of “Compost” and “Crop”;
b. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for “Mushroom”, “Mushroom Mycelium”, “Mushroom spawn”, “Mushroom spawn media”, “Mushroom substrate”, “Pet”, and “Pet food”; and
c. Revising the definition of “Wild crop”.
For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 205.2
Terms defined.
Compost.
The product of a managed process through which microorganisms break down plant and animal materials into more available forms suitable for application to the soil or as a component of mushroom substrate.
Crop.
Pastures, cover crops, green manure crops, catch crops, mushrooms, or any plant or part of a plant intended to be marketed as an agricultural product, fed to livestock, or used in the field to manage nutrients and soil fertility.
Mushroom.
The fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus.
Mushroom mycelium.
A mass of branching, thread-like hyphae (fungal structures).
Mushroom spawn.
Mushroom spawn media colonized by mushroom mycelium that can be used to inoculate mushroom substrate.
Mushroom spawn media.
The base material, such as grain, wood materials, or minerals, used to make mushroom spawn.
Mushroom substrate.
The base material, such as grain, wood materials, composted materials, and/or other agricultural materials, on which mushroom production occurs.
Pet.
Any domestic animal not used for the production and sale of food, fiber, or other agricultural-based consumer products.
Pet food.
Any commercial feed prepared and distributed for pet consumption.
Wild crop.
Any mushroom, plant, or portion of a plant that is collected or harvested from a site that is not maintained under cultivation or other agricultural management.
§ 205.3
Incorporation by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, we must publish notice of change in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the USDA Agricultural Marketing Service, National Organic Program, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250; (202) 720-3252, and is available from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428; phone 1-877-909-2786;
http://www.astm.org/.
(1) ASTM D5988-12 (“ASTM D5988”), “Standard Test Method for Determining Aerobic Biodegradation of Plastic Materials in Soil,” approved May 1, 2012, IBR approved for § 205.2.
(2) ASTM D6400-12 (“ASTM D6400”), “Standard Specification for Labeling of Plastics Designed to be Aerobically Composted in Municipal or Industrial Facilities,” approved May 15, 2012, IBR approved for § 205.2.
(3) ASTM D6866-12 (“ASTM D6866”), “Standard Test Methods for Determining the Biobased Content of Solid, Liquid, and Gaseous Samples Using Radiocarbon Analysis,” approved April 1, 2012, IBR approved for § 205.2.
(4) ASTM D6868-11 (“ASTM D6868”), “Standard Specification for Labeling of End Items that Incorporate Plastics and Polymers as Coatings or Additives with Paper and Other Substrates Designed to be Aerobically Composted in Municipal or Industrial Facilities,” approved February 1, 2011, IBR approved for § 205.2.
(c) European Committee for Standardization; Avenue Marnix, 17-B-1000 Brussels; phone 32 2 550 08 11;
www.cen.eu.
(1) EN 13432:2000:E (“EN 13432”), September, 2000, “Requirements for packaging recoverable through composting and biodegradation—Test scheme and evaluation criteria for the final acceptance of packaging,” IBR approved for § 205.2.
(2) EN 14995:2006:E (“EN 14995”), December, 2006, “Plastics—Evaluation of compostability—Test scheme and specifications,” IBR approved for § 205.2.
(d) International Organization for Standardization, 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, CP 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland; phone 41 22 749 01 11;
www.iso.org.
(1) ISO 17088:2012(E), (“ISO 17088”), “Specifications for compostable plastics,” June 1, 2012, IBR approved for § 205.2.
(2) ISO 17556:2012(E) (“ISO 17556”), “Plastics—Determination of the ultimate aerobic biodegradability of plastic materials in soil by measuring the oxygen demand in a respirometer or the amount of carbon dioxide evolved,” August 15, 2012, IBR approved for § 205.2.
[79 FR 58662, Sept. 30, 2014]

# Subpart B—Applicability
§ 205.100
What has to be certified.
(a) Except for the exempt operations described in § 205.101, each operation or portion of an operation that produces or handles agricultural products intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must be certified according to the provisions of subpart E of this part and must meet all other applicable requirements of this part.
(b) Any production or handling operation or specified portion of a production or handling operation that has been already certified by a certifying agent on the date that the certifying agent receives its accreditation under this part shall be deemed to be certified under the Act until the operation's next anniversary date of certification. Such recognition shall only be available to those operations certified by a certifying agent that receives its accreditation within 18 months from February 20, 2001.
(c) Any person or responsibly connected person that:
(1) Knowingly sells or labels a product as organic, except in accordance with the Act, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than the amount specified in § 3.91(b)(1) of this title per violation.
(2) Makes a false statement under the Act to the Secretary, a governing State official, or an accredited certifying agent shall be subject to the provisions of section 1001 of title 18, United States Code.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 29579, May 24, 2005; 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015; 88 FR 3621, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.101
Exemptions from certification.
The following operations in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section are exempt from certification under subpart E of this part and from submitting an organic system plan for acceptance or approval under § 205.201 but must comply with the applicable organic production and handling requirements of subpart C of this part, the applicable labeling requirements of subpart D of this part, and any requirements described in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.
(a) A production or handling operation that sells agricultural products as “organic” but whose gross agricultural income from organic sales totals $5,000 or less annually.
(b) A retail establishment that does not process organically produced agricultural products.
(c) A retail establishment that processes, at the point of final sale, agricultural products certified under this part as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or
“made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
(d) A handling operation that only handles agricultural products that contain less than 70 percent organic ingredients (as described in § 205.301(d)) or that only identifies organic ingredients on the information panel.
(e) An operation that only receives, stores, and/or prepares for shipment, but does not otherwise handle, organic agricultural products that:
(1) Are enclosed in sealed, tamper-evident packages or containers prior to being received or acquired by the operation; and
(2) Remain in the same sealed, tamper-evident packages or containers and are not otherwise handled while in the control of the operation.
(f) An operation that only buys, sells, receives, stores, and/or prepares for shipment, but does not otherwise handle, organic agricultural products already labeled for retail sale that:
(1) Are enclosed in sealed, tamper-evident packages or containers that are labeled for retail sale prior to being received or acquired by the operation; and
(2) Remain in the same sealed, tamper-evident packages or containers that are labeled for retail sale and are not otherwise handled while in the control of the operation.
(g) A Customs broker (per 19 CFR 111.1) that only conducts customs business but does not otherwise handle organic agricultural products.
(h) An operation that only arranges for the shipping, storing, transport, or movement of organic agricultural products but does not otherwise handle organic products.
(i) Recordkeeping by exempt operations.
(1) Exempt operations described in paragraphs (a) and (c) through (f) of this section must make available to representatives of the Secretary, upon request, records that:
(i) Demonstrate that agricultural products identified as organic were organically produced and handled; and
(ii) Verify quantities of organic agricultural products received and shipped or sold
(2) All records described in this section must be maintained for no less than 3 years beyond their creation, and the operations must allow representatives of the Secretary and the applicable State organic programs' governing State official access to these records for inspection and copying during normal business hours to determine compliance with the applicable regulations set forth in this part.
[88 FR 3621, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.102
Use of the term, “organic.”
Any agricultural product that is sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must be:
(a) Produced in accordance with the requirements specified in § 205.101 or §§ 205.202 through 205.207 or §§ 205.236 through 205.240 and all other applicable requirements of part 205; and
(b) Handled in accordance with the requirements specified in § 205.101 or §§ 205.270 through 205.272 and all other applicable requirements of this part 205.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 7193, Feb. 17, 2010]
§ 205.103
Recordkeeping by certified operations.
(a) A certified operation must maintain records concerning the production, harvesting, and handling of agricultural products that are or that are intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
(b) Such records must:
(1) Be adapted to the particular business that the certified operation is conducting;
(2) Fully disclose all activities and transactions of the certified operation, in sufficient detail as to be readily understood and audited; records must span the time of purchase or acquisition, through production, to sale or transport and be traceable back to the last certified operation;
(3) Include audit trail documentation for agricultural products handled or produced by the certified operation and identify agricultural products on these records as “100% organic,” “organic,”
or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” or similar terms, as applicable;
(4) Be maintained for not less than 5 years beyond their creation; and
(5) Be sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
(c) The certified operation must make such records available for inspection and copying during normal business hours by authorized representatives of the Secretary, the applicable State program's governing State official, and the certifying agent.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3621, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.104
[Reserved]
§ 205.105
Allowed and prohibited substances, methods, and ingredients in organic production and handling.
To be sold or labeled as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” the product must be produced and handled without the use of:
(a) Synthetic substances and ingredients, except as provided in § 205.601 or § 205.603;
(b) Nonsynthetic substances prohibited in § 205.602 or § 205.604;
(c) Nonagricultural substances used in or on processed products, except as otherwise provided in § 205.605;
(d) Nonorganic agricultural substances used in or on processed products, except as otherwise provided in § 205.606;
(e) Excluded methods, except for vaccines:
Provided,
That, the vaccines are approved in accordance with § 205.600(a);
(f) Ionizing radiation, as described in Food and Drug Administration regulation, 21 CFR 179.26; and
(g) Sewage sludge.
§§ 205.106-205.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Organic Production and Handling Requirements
§ 205.200
General.
The producer or handler of a production or handling operation intending to sell, label, or represent agricultural products as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must comply with the applicable provisions of this subpart. Production practices implemented in accordance with this subpart must maintain or improve the natural resources of the operation, including soil and water quality.
§ 205.201
Organic production and handling system plan.
(a) The producer or handler of a production or handling operation, except as exempt under § 205.101, intending to sell, label, or represent agricultural products as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must develop an organic production or handling system plan that is agreed to by the producer or handler and an accredited certifying agent. An organic system plan must meet the requirements set forth in this section for organic production or handling. An organic production or handling system plan must include:
(1) A description of practices and procedures to be performed and maintained, including the frequency with which they will be performed;
(2) A list of each substance to be used as a production or handling input, indicating its composition, source, location(s) where it will be used, and documentation of commercial availability, as applicable;
(3) A description of the monitoring practices and procedures to be performed and maintained, including the frequency with which they will be performed, to verify that the plan is effectively implemented. This must include a description of the monitoring practices and procedures to verify suppliers in the supply chain and organic status of agricultural products received, and to prevent organic fraud, as appropriate to the certified operation's activities, scope, and complexity;
(4) A description of the recordkeeping system implemented to comply with the requirements established in § 205.103;
(5) A description of the management practices and physical barriers established to prevent commingling of organic and nonorganic products on a
split operation and to prevent contact of organic production and handling operations and products with prohibited substances; and
(6) Additional information deemed necessary by the certifying agent to evaluate compliance with the regulations.
(b) A producer may substitute a plan prepared to meet the requirements of another Federal, State, or local government regulatory program for the organic system plan:
Provided,
That, the submitted plan meets all the requirements of this subpart.
(c) In addition to paragraph (a) of this section, a producer group operation's organic system plan must describe its internal control system. The description of the internal control system must:
(1) Define the organizational structure, roles, and responsibilities of all personnel;
(2) Identify producer group production units and locations;
(3) Describe measures to protect against potential conflicts of interest and protect internal control system personnel from retribution;
(4) Define geographic proximity criteria for producer group members and producer group production units;
(5) Describe procedures for accepting new members into the producer group operation, including initial inspection and compliance determination;
(6) Describe characteristics of high-risk producer group members and producer group production units;
(7) Describe how shared resources, including production practices and inputs, are procured and provided to all producer group members and personnel;
(8) Describe how training, education, and technical assistance is provided to producer group members and internal control system personnel;
(9) Describe the system of records used to demonstrate compliance with this part, including traceability and mass-balance audits; and
(10) Describe how internal monitoring, surveillance, inspection, sanctions, and auditing are used to assess the compliance of all producer group members.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3622, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.202
Land requirements.
Any field or farm parcel from which harvested crops are intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “organic,” must:
(a) Have been managed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 205.203 through 205.206;
(b) Have had no prohibited substances, as listed in § 205.105, applied to it for a period of 3 years immediately preceding harvest of the crop; and
(c) Have distinct, defined boundaries and buffer zones such as runoff diversions to prevent the unintended application of a prohibited substance to the crop or contact with a prohibited substance applied to adjoining land that is not under organic management.
§ 205.203
Soil fertility and crop nutrient management practice standard.
(a) The producer must select and implement tillage and cultivation practices that maintain or improve the physical, chemical, and biological condition of soil and minimize soil erosion.
(b) The producer must manage crop nutrients and soil fertility through rotations, cover crops, and the application of plant and animal materials.
(c) The producer must manage plant and animal materials to maintain or improve soil organic matter content in a manner that does not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water by plant nutrients, pathogenic organisms, heavy metals, or residues of prohibited substances. Animal and plant materials include:
(1) Raw animal manure, which must be composted unless it is:
(i) Applied to land used for a crop not intended for human consumption;
(ii) Incorporated into the soil not less than 120 days prior to the harvest of a product whose edible portion has direct contact with the soil surface or soil particles; or
(iii) Incorporated into the soil not less than 90 days prior to the harvest of a product whose edible portion does not
have direct contact with the soil surface or soil particles;
(2) Composted plant and animal materials produced through a process that:
(i) Established an initial C:N ratio of between 25:1 and 40:1; and
(ii) Maintained a temperature of between 131 °F and 170 °F for 3 days using an in-vessel or static aerated pile system; or
(iii) Maintained a temperature of between 131 °F and 170 °F for 15 days using a windrow composting system, during which period, the materials must be turned a minimum of five times.
(3) Uncomposted plant materials.
(d) A producer may manage crop nutrients and soil fertility to maintain or improve soil organic matter content in a manner that does not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water by plant nutrients, pathogenic organisms, heavy metals, or residues of prohibited substances by applying:
(1) A crop nutrient or soil amendment included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production;
(2) A mined substance of low solubility;
(3) A mined substance of high solubility:
Provided,
That, the substance is used in compliance with the conditions established on the National List of nonsynthetic materials prohibited for crop production;
(4) Ash obtained from the burning of a plant or animal material, except as prohibited in paragraph (e) of this section:
Provided,
That, the material burned has not been treated or combined with a prohibited substance or the ash is not included on the National List of nonsynthetic substances prohibited for use in organic crop production; and
(5) A plant or animal material that has been chemically altered by a manufacturing process:
Provided,
That, the material is included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production established in § 205.601.
(e) The producer must not use:
(1) Any fertilizer or composted plant and animal material that contains a synthetic substance not included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production;
(2) Sewage sludge (biosolids) as defined in 40 CFR part 503; and (3) Burning as a means of disposal for crop residues produced on the operation:
Except,
That, burning may be used to suppress the spread of disease or to stimulate seed germination.
§ 205.204
Seeds and planting stock practice standard.
(a) The producer must use organically grown seeds, annual seedlings, and planting stock:
Except,
That,
(1) Nonorganically produced, untreated seeds and planting stock may be used to produce an organic crop when an equivalent organically produced variety is not commercially available:
Except,
That, organically produced seed must be used for the production of edible sprouts;
(2) Nonorganically produced seeds and planting stock that have been treated with a substance included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production may be used to produce an organic crop when an equivalent organically produced or untreated variety is not commercially available;
(3) Nonorganically produced annual seedlings may be used to produce an organic crop when a temporary variance has been granted in accordance with § 205.290(a)(2);
(4) Nonorganically produced planting stock to be used to produce a perennial crop may be sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced only after the planting stock has been maintained under a system of organic management for a period of no less than 1 year; and
(5) Seeds, annual seedlings, and planting stock treated with prohibited substances may be used to produce an organic crop when the application of the materials is a requirement of Federal or State phytosanitary regulations.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 205.205
Crop rotation practice standard.
The producer must implement a crop rotation including but not limited to
sod, cover crops, green manure crops, and catch crops that provide the following functions that are applicable to the operation:
(a) Maintain or improve soil organic matter content;
(b) Provide for pest management in annual and perennial crops;
(c) Manage deficient or excess plant nutrients; and
(d) Provide erosion control.
§ 205.206
Crop pest, weed, and disease management practice standard.
(a) The producer must use management practices to prevent crop pests, weeds, and diseases including but not limited to:
(1) Crop rotation and soil and crop nutrient management practices, as provided for in §§ 205.203 and 205.205;
(2) Sanitation measures to remove disease vectors, weed seeds, and habitat for pest organisms; and
(3) Cultural practices that enhance crop health, including selection of plant species and varieties with regard to suitability to site-specific conditions and resistance to prevalent pests, weeds, and diseases.
(b) Pest problems may be controlled through mechanical or physical methods including but not limited to:
(1) Augmentation or introduction of predators or parasites of the pest species;
(2) Development of habitat for natural enemies of pests;
(3) Nonsynthetic controls such as lures, traps, and repellents.
(c) Weed problems may be controlled through:
(1) Mulching with fully biodegradable materials;
(2) Mowing;
(3) Livestock grazing;
(4) Hand weeding and mechanical cultivation;
(5) Flame, heat, or electrical means; or
(6) Plastic or other synthetic mulches:
Provided,
That, they are removed from the field at the end of the growing or harvest season.
(d) Disease problems may be controlled through:
(1) Management practices which suppress the spread of disease organisms; or
(2) Application of nonsynthetic biological, botanical, or mineral inputs.
(e) When the practices provided for in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are insufficient to prevent or control crop pests, weeds, and diseases, a biological or botanical substance or a substance included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production may be applied to prevent, suppress, or control pests, weeds, or diseases:
Provided,
That, the conditions for using the substance are documented in the organic system plan.
(f) The producer must not use lumber treated with arsenate or other prohibited materials for new installations or replacement purposes in contact with soil or livestock.
§ 205.207
Wild-crop harvesting practice standard.
(a) A wild crop that is intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as organic must be harvested from a designated area that has had no prohibited substance, as set forth in § 205.105, applied to it for a period of 3 years immediately preceding the harvest of the wild crop.
(b) A wild crop must be harvested in a manner that ensures that such harvesting or gathering will not be destructive to the environment and will sustain the growth and production of the wild crop.
§§ 205.208-205.209
[Reserved]
§ 205.210
Mushroom production practice standard.
(a) The producer must manage mushroom production in accordance with the provisions of §§ 205.200, 205.201, 205.202 as applicable, 205.203(e), and 205.206(a)(2) and (3) and (b) through (f). The producer may manage crop nutrients for mushroom production in accordance with the provisions of § 205.203(d).
(b) The producer must manage mushroom substrate and mushroom spawn media, including spent mushroom substrate and mushroom spawn media, in a manner that does not contribute to contamination of crops, mushroom spawn, mushroom substrate, soil, or water by pathogenic organisms, heavy
metals, or residues of prohibited substances.
(c) Mushroom substrate may be composed of the following materials in accordance with the conditions specified in this paragraph:
(1)
Composted plant and animal materials.
Compost used in mushroom substrate must be described in the organic system plan. It must be produced through a process that maintains a temperature of at least 131 °F for at least three days;
(2)
Uncomposted plant materials.
Uncomposted plant materials must be organically produced:
Except,
that, nonorganically produced uncomposted plant materials may be used when a functionally equivalent organically produced material is not commercially available. Prohibited substances must not be applied to nonorganically produced uncomposted plant materials after harvest. Operations that use nonorganically produced uncomposted plant materials in mushroom substrate (except for wood materials allowed under paragraph (c)(3) of this section) must describe in the organic system plan:
(i) The procedures used to search for organic materials and the records kept to document searches;
(ii) The criteria used to evaluate if functionally equivalent organic materials are commercially available; and
(iii) The recordkeeping system used to document purchases of nonorganic materials, including a summary of the type(s) and total amount of each nonorganic material used in mushroom substrate.
(3) Wood chips, sawdust, logs, or other materials derived from wood that have not been treated with a prohibited substance after harvest;
(4) Nonsynthetic substances, except those on the National List of nonsynthetic substances prohibited for use in organic crop production (§ 205.602); and
(5) Synthetic substances on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production (§ 205.601).
(d) Mushroom spawn must be organic:
Except,
that, nonorganic mushroom spawn may be used to produce an organic crop when an equivalent organic mushroom spawn is not commercially available.
(1) Organic mushroom spawn requirements.
(i) Agricultural materials used as mushroom spawn media must be organic:
Except,
that, nonorganic wood materials in compliance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section are allowed.
(ii) Mushroom spawn media may contain materials allowed in mushroom substrate at paragraphs (c)(1), (4), and (5) of this section.
(iii) Organic mushroom spawn must be under continuous organic management after the mycelium is applied to the mushroom spawn media.
(2) Organic mushroom operations that produce their own mushroom spawn for their own organic mushroom production must use organic agricultural materials for mushroom spawn media, unless a functionally equivalent organic agricultural material is not commercially available: Except that, wood materials in compliance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section are allowed.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 104392, Dec. 23, 2024, § 205.210 was added, effective Feb. 21, 2025.
§§ 205.211-205.235
[Reserved]
§ 205.236
Origin of livestock.
(a) Livestock products that are to be sold, labeled, or represented as organic must be from livestock under continuous organic management from the last third of gestation or hatching:
Except,
That:
(1)
Poultry.
Poultry or edible poultry products must be from poultry that has been under continuous organic management beginning no later than the second day of life;
(2)
Dairy animals.
Subject to the requirements of this paragraph, an operation that is not certified for organic livestock and that has never transitioned dairy animals may transition nonorganic animals to organic production only once. After the one-time transition is complete, the operation may not transition additional animals or source transitioned animals from other operations; the operation must source only animals that have
been under continuous organic management from the last third of gestation.
Eligible operations converting to organic production by transitioning organic animals under this paragraph must meet the following requirements and conditions:
(i) Dairy animals must be under continuous organic management for a minimum of 12 months immediately prior to production of milk or milk products that are to be sold, labeled, or represented as organic. Only certified operations may represent or sell products as organic.
(ii) The operation must describe the transition as part of its organic system plan. The description must include the actual or expected start date of the minimum 12-month transition, individual identification of animals intended to complete transition, and any additional information or records deemed necessary by the certifying agent to determine compliance with the regulations. Transitioning animals are not considered organic until the operation is certified.
(iii) During the 12-month transition period, dairy animals and their offspring may consume third-year transitional crops from land included in the organic system plan of the operation transitioning the animals;
(iv) Offspring born during or after the 12-month transition period are transitioned animals if they consume third-year transitional crops during the transition or if the mother consumes third-year transitional crops during the offspring's last third of gestation;
(v) Consistent with the breeder stock provisions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, offspring born from transitioning dairy animals are not considered to be transitioned animals if they are under continuous organic management and if only certified organic crops and forages are fed from their last third of gestation (rather, they are considered to have been managed organically from the last third of gestation);
(vi) All dairy animals must end the transition at the same time;
(vii) Dairy animals that complete the transition and that are part of a certified operation are transitioned animals and must not be used for organic livestock products other than organic milk and milk products.
(3)
Breeder stock.
Livestock used as breeder stock may be brought from a nonorganic operation onto an organic operation at any time,
Provided,
That the following conditions are met:
(i) Such breeder stock must be brought onto the operation no later than the last third of gestation if their offspring are to be raised as organic livestock; and
(ii) Such breeder stock must be managed organically throughout the last third of gestation and the lactation period during which time they may nurse their own offspring.
(b) The following are prohibited:
(1) Livestock that are removed from an organic operation and subsequently managed or handled on a nonorganic operation may not be sold, labeled, or represented as organic.
(2) Breeder stock, dairy animals, or transitioned animals that have not been under continuous organic management since the last third of gestation may not be sold, labeled, or represented as organic slaughter stock.
(c) The producer of an organic livestock operation must maintain records sufficient to preserve the identity of all organically managed animals, including whether they are transitioned animals, and edible and nonedible animal products produced on the operation.
(d) A request for a variance to allow sourcing of transitioned animals between certified operations must adhere to the following:
(1) A variance from the requirement to source dairy animals that have been under continuous organic management from the last third of gestation, as stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may be granted by the Administrator to certified operations that are small businesses, as determined in 13 CFR part 121, for any of the following reasons:
(i) The certified operation selling the transitioned animals is part of a bankruptcy proceeding or a forced sale; or
(ii) The certified operation has become insolvent, must liquidate its animals, and as a result has initiated a
formal process to cease its operations; or
(iii) The certified operation wishes to conduct an intergenerational transfer of transitioned animals to an immediate family member.
(2) A certifying agent must request a variance on behalf of a certified operation, in writing, to the Administrator within ten days of receiving the request of variance from the operation. The variance request shall include documentation to demonstrate one or more of the circumstances listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3) The Administrator will provide written notification to the certifying agent and to the operation(s) involved as to whether the variance is granted or rejected.
[87 FR 19772, Apr. 5, 2022]
§ 205.237
Livestock feed.
(a) The producer of an organic livestock operation must provide livestock with a total feed ration composed of agricultural products, including pasture and forage, that are organically produced and handled by operations certified under this part, except as provided in § 205.236(a)(2)(iii) and (a)(3), except, that, synthetic substances allowed under § 205.603 and nonsynthetic substances not prohibited under § 205.604 may be used as feed additives and feed supplements,
Provided,
That, all agricultural ingredients included in the ingredients list, for such additives and supplements, shall have been produced and handled organically.
(b) The producer of an organic operation must not:
(1) Use animal drugs, including hormones, to promote growth;
(2) Provide feed supplements or additives in amounts above those needed for adequate nutrition and health maintenance for the species at its specific stage of life;
(3) Feed plastic pellets for roughage;
(4) Feed formulas containing urea or manure;
(5) Feed mammalian or poultry slaughter by-products to mammals or poultry;
(6) Use feed, feed additives, and feed supplements in violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(7) Provide feed or forage to which any antibiotic including ionophores has been added; or
(8) Prevent, withhold, restrain, or otherwise restrict ruminant animals from actively obtaining feed grazed from pasture during the grazing season, except for conditions as described under § 205.239(b) and (c).
(c) During the grazing season, producers shall:
(1) Provide not more than an average of 70 percent of a ruminant's dry matter demand from dry matter fed (dry matter fed does not include dry matter grazed from residual forage or vegetation rooted in pasture). This shall be calculated as an average over the entire grazing season for each type and class of animal. Ruminant animals must be grazed throughout the entire grazing season for the geographical region, which shall be not less than 120 days per calendar year. Due to weather, season, and/or climate, the grazing season may or may not be continuous.
(2) Provide pasture of a sufficient quality and quantity to graze throughout the grazing season and to provide all ruminants under the organic system plan with an average of not less than 30 percent of their dry matter intake from grazing throughout the grazing season:
Except,
That,
(i) Ruminant animals denied pasture in accordance with § 205.239(b)(1) through (8), and § 205.239(c)(1) through (3), shall be provided with an average of not less than 30 percent of their dry matter intake from grazing throughout the periods that they are on pasture during the grazing season;
(ii) Breeding bulls shall be exempt from the 30 percent dry matter intake from grazing requirement of this section and management on pasture requirement of § 205.239(c)(2);
Provided,
That, any animal maintained under this exemption shall not be sold, labeled, used, or represented as organic slaughter stock.
(d) Ruminant livestock producers shall:
(1) Describe the total feed ration for each type and class of animal. The description must include:
(i) All feed produced on-farm;
(ii) All feed purchased from off-farm sources;
(iii) The percentage of each feed type, including pasture, in the total ration; and
(iv) A list of all feed supplements and additives.
(2) Document the amount of each type of feed actually fed to each type and class of animal.
(3) Document changes that are made to all rations throughout the year in response to seasonal grazing changes.
(4) Provide the method for calculating dry matter demand and dry matter intake.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 7193, Feb. 17, 2010; 87 FR 19773, Apr. 5, 2022]
§ 205.238
Livestock care and production practices standard.
(a)
Preventive health care practices.
The producer must establish and maintain preventive health care practices, including:
(1) Selection of species and types of livestock with regard to suitability for site-specific conditions and resistance to prevalent diseases and parasites.
(2) Provision of a feed ration sufficient to meet nutritional requirements of the animal, including vitamins, minerals, proteins and/or amino acids, fatty acids, energy sources, and fiber (ruminants).
(3) Establishment of appropriate housing, pasture conditions, and sanitation practices to minimize the occurrence and spread of diseases and parasites.
(4) Provision of conditions which allow for exercise, freedom of movement, and reduction of stress appropriate to the species.
(5) Physical alterations may be performed for identification purposes or the safety of the animal. Physical alterations must be performed: at a young age for the species, in a manner that minimizes stress and pain, and by a person that is capable of performing the physical alteration in a manner that minimizes stress and pain.
(i) The following practices may not be routinely used and must be used only with documentation that alternative methods to prevent harm failed: needle teeth clipping (no more than top one-third of the tooth) in pigs and tail docking in pigs.
(ii) The following practices are prohibited: de-beaking, de-snooding, caponization, dubbing, toe clipping of chickens, toe clipping of turkeys unless with infra-red at hatchery, beak trimming after 10 days of age, tail docking of cattle, wattling of cattle, face branding of cattle, tail docking of sheep shorter than the distal end of the caudal fold, and mulesing of sheep.
(6) Administration of vaccines and other veterinary biologics.
(7) All surgical procedures necessary to treat an illness or injury shall be undertaken in a manner that employs best management practices to promote the animal's wellbeing and to minimize pain, stress, and suffering, with the use of allowed anesthetics, analgesics, and sedatives, as appropriate.
(8) Monitoring of lameness; timely and appropriate treatment of lameness for the species; and mitigation of the causes of lameness.
(b)
Preventive medicines and parasiticides.
Producers may administer medications that are allowed under § 205.603 of this part to alleviate pain or suffering, and when preventive practices and veterinary biologics are inadequate to prevent sickness. Parasiticides allowed under § 205.603 of this part may be used on:
(1) Breeder stock, when used prior to the last third of gestation but not during lactation for progeny that are to be sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced; and
(2) Dairy animals, as allowed under § 205.603 of this part.
(3) Fiber bearing animals, as allowed under § 205.603 of this part.
(c)
Prohibited practices.
An organic livestock operation must not:
(1) Sell, label, or represent as organic any animal or product derived from any animal treated with antibiotics, any substance that contains a synthetic substance not allowed under § 205.603 of this part, or any substance that contains a non-synthetic substance prohibited in § 205.604 of this part. Milk from animals undergoing treatment with synthetic substances that are allowed under § 205.603 of this part but have associated withdrawal periods cannot be sold, labeled, or represented as organic during the withdrawal period but may be fed to calves
on the same operation. Milk from animals undergoing treatment with prohibited substances cannot be sold, labeled, or represented as organic or fed to organic livestock.
(2) Administer synthetic medications unless:
(i) In the presence of illness or to alleviate pain and suffering, and
(ii) That such medications are allowed under § 205.603 of this part.
(3) Administer hormones for growth promotion, production, or reproduction, except as provided in § 205.603 of this part.
(4) Administer synthetic parasiticides on a routine basis.
(5) Administer synthetic parasiticides to slaughter stock.
(6) Administer animal drugs in violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or
(7) Withhold medical treatment from a sick animal in an effort to preserve its organic status. All appropriate medications must be used to restore an animal to health when methods acceptable to organic production fail. Livestock treated with a prohibited substance must be clearly identified and neither the animal nor its products shall be sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced.
(8) Withhold individual treatment designed to minimize pain and suffering for injured, diseased, or sick animals, which may include forms of euthanasia as recommended by the American Veterinary Medical Association.
(9) Neglect to identify and record treatment of sick and injured animals in animal health records.
(10) Practice induced molting.
(d)
Parasite control plans.
(1) Organic livestock operations must have comprehensive plans to minimize internal parasite problems in livestock, including preventive measures such as pasture management, fecal monitoring, and emergency measures in the event of a parasite outbreak.
(2) [Reserved]
(e)
Euthanasia.
(1) Organic livestock operations must have written plans for prompt, humane euthanasia for sick or injured livestock suffering from irreversible disease or injury.
(2) The following methods of euthanasia are not permitted: suffocation; manual blow to the head by blunt instrument or manual blunt force trauma; and the use of equipment that crushes the neck, including killing pliers or Burdizzo clamps.
(3) Following a euthanasia procedure, livestock must be carefully examined to ensure that they are dead.
[88 FR 75445, Nov. 2, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]
§ 205.239
Mammalian and non-avian livestock living conditions.
(a) The producer of an organic livestock operation must establish and maintain year-round livestock living conditions, which accommodate the wellbeing and natural behavior of animals, including:
(1) Year-round access for all animals to the outdoors, shade, shelter, exercise areas, fresh air, clean water for drinking, and direct sunlight, suitable to the species, its stage of life, the climate, and the environment: Except, that, animals may be temporarily denied access to the outdoors in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Yards, feeding pads, and feedlots may be used to provide ruminants with access to the outdoors during the non-grazing season and supplemental feeding during the grazing season. Yards, feeding pads, and feedlots shall be large enough to allow all ruminant livestock occupying the yard, feeding pad, or feedlot to feed without competition for food. Continuous total confinement of any animal indoors is prohibited. Continuous total confinement of ruminants in yards, feeding pads, and feedlots is prohibited.
(2) For all ruminants, management on pasture and daily grazing throughout the grazing season(s) to meet the requirements of § 205.237 of this part, except as provided for in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(3) Appropriate clean, dry bedding. When roughages are used as bedding, they shall have been organically produced in accordance with this part by an operation certified under this part, except as provided in § 205.236(a)(2)(iii) of this part, and, if applicable, organically handled by operations certified under this part.
(4) Shelter designed to allow for:
(i) Over a 24-hour period, sufficient space and freedom to lie down, turn around, stand up, fully stretch their limbs, and express normal patterns of behavior;
(ii) Temperature level, ventilation, and air circulation suitable to the species;
(iii) Reduction of potential for livestock injury; and
(iv) Indoor housing must have areas for bedding and resting that are sufficiently large, solidly built, and comfortable so that animals are kept clean and dry, as appropriate for the species, and free of lesions.
(5) The use of yards, feeding pads, feedlots and laneways that shall be well-drained, kept in good condition (including frequent removal of wastes), and managed to prevent runoff of wastes and contaminated waters to adjoining or nearby surface water and across property boundaries.
(6) Housing, pens, runs, equipment, and utensils shall be properly cleaned and disinfected as needed to prevent cross-infection and build-up of disease-carrying organisms.
(7) Dairy young stock may be housed in individual pens until completion of the weaning process, provided that they have enough room to turn around, lie down, stretch out when lying down, get up, rest, and groom themselves; individual animal pens shall be designed and located so that each animal can see, smell, and hear other animals.
(8) Swine must be housed in a group, except:
(i) Sows may be housed individually at farrowing and during the suckling period; gestation and farrowing crates are prohibited;
(ii) Boars; and
(iii) Swine with multiple documented instances of aggression or for recovery from an illness.
(9) Piglets shall not be kept on flat decks or in piglet cages.
(10) For swine, rooting materials must be provided, except during the farrowing and suckling period.
(11) In confined housing with stalls for mammalian livestock, enough stalls must be present to provide for the natural behaviors of the animals. A cage must not be called a stall. For group-housed swine, the number of individual feeding stalls may be less than the number of animals, as long as all animals are fed routinely over a 24-hour period. For group-housed cattle, bedded packs, compost packs, tie-stalls, free-stalls, and stanchion barns are all acceptable housing as part of an overall organic system plan.
(12) Outdoor space must be provided year-round. When the outdoor space includes soil, vegetative cover must be maintained as appropriate for the season, climate, geography, species of livestock, and stage of production.
(b) The producer of an organic livestock operation may provide temporary confinement or shelter for an animal because of:
(1) Inclement weather;
(2) The animal's stage of life, however, lactation is not a stage of life that would exempt ruminants from any of the mandates set forth in this part;
(3) Conditions under which the health, safety, or well-being of the animal could be jeopardized;
(4) Risk to soil or water quality;
(5) Preventive healthcare procedures or for the treatment of illness or injury (neither the various life stages nor lactation is an illness or injury);
(6) Sorting or shipping animals and livestock sales, provided that the animals shall be maintained under continuous organic management, including organic feed, throughout the extent of their allowed confinement;
(7) Breeding: Except, that, animals shall not be confined any longer than necessary for natural breeding or to perform artificial insemination. Animals may not be confined to observe estrus, and animals may not be confined after breeding to confirm pregnancy; and
(8) 4-H, National FFA Organization, and other youth projects, for no more than one week prior to a fair or other demonstration, through the event, and up to 24 hours after the animals have arrived home at the conclusion of the event. These animals must have been maintained under continuous organic management, including organic feed, during the extent of their allowed confinement for the event. Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, facilities where 4-H, National FFA Organization,
and other youth events are held are not required to be certified organic for the participating animals to be sold as organic, provided all other organic management practices are followed.
(c) The producer of an organic livestock operation may, in addition to the times permitted under paragraph (b) of this section, temporarily deny a ruminant animal pasture or outdoor access under the following conditions:
(1) One week at the end of a lactation for dry off (for denial of access to pasture only), three weeks prior to parturition (birthing), parturition, and up to one week after parturition;
(2) In the case of newborn dairy cattle, for up to six months, after which they must be on pasture during the grazing season and may no longer be individually housed: Except, That, any animal shall not be confined or tethered in a way that prevents the animal from lying down, standing up, fully extending its limbs, and moving about freely;
(3) In the case of fiber bearing animals, for short periods for shearing; and
(4) In the case of dairy animals, for short periods daily for milking. Milking must be scheduled in a manner to ensure sufficient grazing time to provide each animal with an average of at least 30 percent dry matter intake (DMI) from grazing throughout the grazing season. Milking frequencies or duration practices cannot be used to deny dairy animals pasture.
(d) Ruminant slaughter stock, typically grain finished, shall be maintained on pasture for each day that the finishing period corresponds with the grazing season for the geographical location. Yards, feeding pads, or feedlots may be used to provide finish feeding rations. During the finishing period, ruminant slaughter stock shall be exempt from the minimum 30 percent DMI requirement from grazing. Yards, feeding pads, or feedlots used to provide finish feeding rations shall be large enough to allow all ruminant slaughter stock occupying the yard, feeding pad, or feed lot to feed without crowding and without competition for food. The finishing period shall not exceed one-fifth (
1/5
) of the animal's total life or 120 days, whichever is shorter.
(e) The producer of an organic livestock operation must manage manure in a manner that does not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water by plant nutrients, heavy metals, or pathogenic organisms and optimizes recycling of nutrients and must manage pastures and other outdoor access areas in a manner that does not put soil or water quality at risk.
[88 FR 75446, Nov. 6, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]
§ 205.240
Pasture practice standard.
The producer of an organic livestock operation must, for all ruminant livestock on the operation, demonstrate through auditable records in the organic system plan, a functioning management plan for pasture.
(a) Pasture must be managed as a crop in full compliance with §§ 205.202, 205.203(d) and (e), 205.204, and 205.206(b) through (f). Land used for the production of annual crops for ruminant grazing must be managed in full compliance with §§ 205.202 through 205.206. Irrigation shall be used, as needed, to promote pasture growth when the operation has irrigation available for use on pasture.
(b) Producers must provide pasture in compliance with § 205.239(a)(2) and manage pasture to comply with the requirements of: § 205.237(c)(2), to annually provide a minimum of 30 percent of a ruminant's dry matter intake (DMI), on average, over the course of the grazing season(s); § 205.238(a)(3), to minimize the occurrence and spread of diseases and parasites; and § 205.239(e) to refrain from putting soil or water quality at risk.
(c) A pasture plan must be included in the producer's organic system plan, and be updated annually in accordance with § 205.406(a). The producer may resubmit the previous year's pasture plan when no change has occurred in the plan. The pasture plan may consist of a pasture/rangeland plan developed in cooperation with a Federal, State, or local conservation office:
Provided,
that, the submitted plan addresses all of the requirements of § 205.240(c)(1) through (8). When a change to an approved pasture plan is contemplated, which may affect the operation's compliance with the Act or the regulations
in this part, the producer shall seek the certifying agent's agreement on the change prior to implementation. The pasture plan shall include a description of the:
(1) Types of pasture provided to ensure that the feed requirements of § 205.237 are being met.
(2) Cultural and management practices to be used to ensure pasture of a sufficient quality and quantity is available to graze throughout the grazing season and to provide all ruminants under the organic system plan, except exempted classes identified in § 205.239(c)(1) through (3), with an average of not less than 30 percent of their dry matter intake from grazing throughout the grazing season.
(3) Grazing season for the livestock operation's regional location.
(4) Location and size of pastures, including maps giving each pasture its own identification.
(5) The types of grazing methods to be used in the pasture system.
(6) Location and types of fences, except for temporary fences, and the location and source of shade and the location and source of water.
(7) Soil fertility and seeding systems.
(8) Erosion control and protection of natural wetlands and riparian areas practices.
[75 FR 7194, Feb. 17, 2010]
§ 205.241
Avian living conditions.
(a)
Avian year-round living conditions.
The producer of an organic poultry operation must establish and maintain year-round poultry living conditions that accommodate the health and natural behavior of poultry, including: year-round access to the outdoors; shade; shelter; exercise areas; fresh air; direct sunlight; clean water for drinking; materials for dust bathing; and adequate outdoor space to escape aggressive behaviors suitable to the species, its stage of life, the climate, and environment. Poultry may be temporarily denied access to the outdoors in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. Continuous total confinement of poultry indoors is prohibited.
(b)
Indoor space requirements.
(1) Poultry housing must be sufficiently spacious to allow all birds to move freely, stretch both wings simultaneously, stand normally, and engage in natural behaviors.
(2) Producers must monitor ammonia levels at least weekly by taking measurements at the height of the birds' heads and implement practices to maintain ammonia levels below 20 ppm. When ammonia levels exceed 20 ppm, producers must implement additional practices and additional monitoring to reduce ammonia levels below 20 ppm. Ammonia levels must not exceed 25 ppm.
(3) For layers and all other fully feathered birds, artificial light may be used to prolong the day length, to provide up to 16 hours of continuous light per 24-hour period (
i.e.,
minimum of 8 hours of continuous darkness per 24-hour period). Artificial light intensity should be lowered gradually to encourage hens to move to perches or settle for the night. Artificial light spectrum may not be manipulated to increase feed intake and growth rate.
(4) Exit areas—poultry houses must have at least 1 linear foot of exit area for every 360 birds, measured across the base of the exit, but no less than one linear foot of exit area for flocks with fewer than 360 birds. Exit areas must be appropriately distributed and sized to ensure that all birds have ready access to the outdoors;
(i) If exit areas are not provided at a ratio of at least 1 linear foot per 360 birds, a certifier may approve practices that provide less than 1 linear foot per 360 birds only if an operation describes its practices (in the organic system plan) and demonstrates that ready access to the outdoors is provided for all birds;
(ii) Producers subject to requirements in 21 CFR part 118—Production, Storage, and Transportation of Shell Eggs, must take steps to prevent stray poultry, wild birds, cats, and other animals from entering poultry houses.
(5) Perches—for layers (Gallus gallus), six inches of perch space must be provided per bird. Perch space may include the alighting rail in front of the nest boxes. All layers must be able to perch at the same time except for aviary housing, in which 55 percent of layers must be able to perch at the same time. Floors in slatted/mesh floor
housing cannot be counted as perch space.
(6) All birds must have access to areas in the house that allow for scratching and dust bathing, except, that mobile housing may meet this requirement when paired with outdoor space that provides birds with areas for scratching and dust bathing. Litter must be provided and maintained in a dry condition in the house.
(7) Non-mobile houses with slatted/mesh floors must have 15 percent minimum of solid floor area available with sufficient litter available for dust baths so that birds may freely dust bathe without crowding.
(8) For layers (
Gallus gallus
), indoor stocking density must meet one or both of the following rates, expressed in different terms.
(i) Mobile housing: not to exceed 4.5 pounds per square foot; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 1.5 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(ii) Aviary housing: not to exceed 4.5 pounds per square foot; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 1.5 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(iii) Slatted/mesh floor housing: not to exceed 3.75 pounds per square foot; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 1.8 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(iv) Floor litter housing: not to exceed 3.0 pounds per square foot; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 2.2 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(v) Other housing: not to exceed 2.25 pounds per square foot; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 3.0 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(9) For pullets (
Gallus gallus
), indoor stocking density must not exceed 3.0 pounds of bird per square foot; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 1.7 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(10) For broilers (
Gallus gallus
), indoor stocking density must not exceed 5.0 pounds of bird per square foot; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 2.0 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(11) Indoor space includes flat areas available to birds, excluding nest boxes.
(12) Indoor space may include enclosed porches and lean-to type structures (e.g., screened in, roofed) as long as the birds always have access to the space, including during temporary confinement events. If birds do not have continuous access to the porch during temporary confinement events, this space must not be considered indoors.
(c)
Outdoor space requirements.
(1) Access to outdoor space and door spacing must be designed to promote and encourage outside access for all birds on a daily basis. Producers must provide access to the outdoors at an early age to encourage (
i.e.,
train) birds to go outdoors. Birds may be temporarily denied access to the outdoors in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) At least 75 percent of outdoor space must be soil. Outdoor space with soil must include vegetative cover appropriate for the season, climate, geography, species of livestock, and stage of production. Vegetative cover must be maintained in a manner that does not provide harborage for rodents and other pests.
(3) Shade may be provided by structures, trees, or other objects in the outdoor area.
(4) For layers (
Gallus gallus
), outdoor space must be provided at a rate of no less than one square foot for every 2.25 pounds of bird in the flock; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 3.0 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(5) For pullets (
Gallus gallus
), outdoor space must be provided at a rate of no less than one square foot for every 3.0 pounds of bird in the flock; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 1.7 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(6) For broilers (
Gallus gallus
), outdoor space must be provided at a rate of no less than one square foot for every 5.0 pounds of bird in the flock; or, alternatively, a rate of at least 2.0 square feet per bird will comply with the requirement.
(7) Outdoor space may include structures that are not enclosed (e.g., with roof but no walls) and allow birds to freely access other outdoor space.
(d)
Temporary confinement.
The producer of an organic poultry operation may temporarily confine birds. Confinement must be recorded. Operations may temporarily confine birds when one of the following circumstances exists:
(1) Inclement weather, including when air temperatures are under 32 degrees F or above 90 degrees F.
(2) The animal's stage of life, including:
(i) The first 4 weeks of life for broilers (
Gallus gallus
);
(ii) The first 16 weeks of life for pullets (
Gallus gallus
); and
(iii) Until fully feathered for bird species other than
Gallus gallus.
(3) Conditions under which the health, safety, or well-being of the animal could be jeopardized.
(4) Risk to soil or water quality.
(5) Preventive healthcare procedures or for the treatment of illness or injury (neither various life stages nor egg laying is an illness or injury).
(6) Sorting or shipping birds and poultry sales, provided that the birds are maintained under continuous organic management, throughout the extent of their allowed confinement.
(7) For nest box training, provided that birds shall not be confined any longer than required to establish the proper behavior. Confinement for nest box training must not exceed five weeks over the life of the bird.
(8) For 4-H, National FFA Organization, and other youth projects, for no more than one week prior to a fair or other demonstration, through the event, and up to 24 hours after the birds have arrived home at the conclusion of the event. During temporary confinement, birds must be under continuous organic management, including organic feed, for the duration of confinement. Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, facilities where 4-H, National FFA Organization, and other youth events are held are not required to be certified organic for the participating birds to be sold as organic, provided all other organic management practices are followed.
(e)
Manure management.
The producer of an organic poultry operation must manage manure in a manner that does not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water by plant nutrients, heavy metals, or pathogenic organisms. The producer must also optimize recycling of nutrients and must manage outdoor access areas in a manner that does not put soil or water quality at risk.
[88 FR 75446, Nov. 6, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]
§ 205.242
Transport and slaughter.
(a)
Transportation.
(1) Certified organic livestock must be clearly identified as organic, and this identity must be traceable for the duration of transport.
(2) All livestock must be fit for transport to buyers, auction or slaughter facilities.
(i) Calves must have a dry navel cord and be able to stand and walk without human assistance.
(ii) Seriously crippled and non-ambulatory animals must not be transported for sale or slaughter. Such animals may be medically treated or euthanized.
(3) Adequate and season-appropriate ventilation is required for all livestock trailers, shipping containers, and any other mode of transportation used to protect animals against cold and heat stresses.
(4) During any transport and prior to slaughter, bedding must be provided on trailer floors and in holding pens, as needed, to keep livestock clean, dry, and comfortable. Use of bedding must be appropriate to the species and type of transport. Bedding is not required in poultry crates. When roughages are used for bedding, they must be certified organic.
(5) For transport that exceeds eight hours, measured from the time all animals are loaded onto a vehicle until the vehicle arrives at its final destination, the operation must describe how organic management and animal welfare will be maintained.
(i) The producer or handler of an organic livestock operation, who is responsible for overseeing the transport of organic livestock, must provide records to certifying agents during inspections or upon request that demonstrate that transport times for organic livestock are not detrimental to
the welfare of the animals and meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) Organic producers and handlers, who are responsible for overseeing the transport of organic livestock, must have emergency plans in place that adequately address possible animal welfare problems that might occur during transport.
(b)
Mammalian slaughter.
(1) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic livestock must be in compliance, as determined by FSIS, with the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603(b) and 21 U.S.C. 610(b)), the regulations at 9 CFR part 313 regarding humane handling and slaughter of livestock, and the regulations of 9 CFR part 309 regarding ante-mortem inspection.
(2) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic exotic animals must be in compliance with the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621,
et seq.
), the regulations at 9 CFR parts 313 and 352 regarding the humane handling and slaughter of exotic animals, and the regulations of 9 CFR part 309 regarding ante-mortem inspection.
(3) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic livestock or exotic animals must provide all noncompliance records related to humane handling and slaughter issued by the controlling national, federal, or state authority and all records of subsequent corrective actions to certifying agents during inspections or upon request.
(c)
Avian slaughter.
(1) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic poultry must be in compliance, as determined by FSIS, with the Poultry Products Inspection Act requirements (21 U.S.C. 453(g)(5)); the regulations at paragraph (v) of the definition of “
Adulterated”
in 9 CFR 381.1(b), and 9 CFR 381.90, and 381.65(b)); and applicable FSIS Directives.
(2) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic poultry must provide all noncompliance records related to the use of good commercial practices in connection with slaughter issued by the controlling national, federal, or state authority and all records of subsequent corrective actions to the certifying agent at inspection or upon request.
(3) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic poultry, but are exempt from or not covered by the requirements of the Poultry Products Inspection Act, must ensure that:
(i) No lame birds may be shackled, hung, or carried by their legs;
(ii) All birds shackled on a chain or automated system must be stunned prior to exsanguination, with the exception of religious slaughter; and
(iii) All birds must be irreversibly insensible prior to being placed in the scalding tank.
[88 FR 75446, Nov. 6, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]
§§ 205.243-205.269
[Reserved]
§ 205.270
Organic handling requirements.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024.
(a) Mechanical or biological methods, including but not limited to cooking, baking, curing, heating, drying, mixing, grinding, churning, separating, distilling, extracting, slaughtering, cutting, fermenting, eviscerating, preserving, dehydrating, freezing, chilling, or otherwise manufacturing, and the packaging, canning, jarring, or otherwise enclosing food in a container may be used to process an organically produced agricultural product for the purpose of retarding spoilage or otherwise preparing the agricultural product for market.
(b) Nonagricultural substances allowed under § 205.605 and nonorganically produced agricultural products allowed under § 205.606 may be used:
(1) In or on a processed agricultural product intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “organic,” pursuant to § 205.301(b), if not commercially available in organic form.
(2) In or on a processed agricultural product intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” pursuant to § 205.301(c).
(c) The handler of an organic handling operation must not use in or on agricultural products intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or
food group(s)),” or in or on any ingredients labeled as organic:
(1) Practices prohibited under paragraphs (e) and (f) of § 205.105.
(2) A volatile synthetic solvent or other synthetic processing aid not allowed under § 205.605:
Except,
That, nonorganic ingredients in products labeled “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” are not subject to this requirement.
§ 205.270, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024, § 205.270 was amended by adding paragraph (d), effective Feb. 21, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 205.270
Organic handling requirements.
(d) In addition to the substances described in paragraph (b) of this section, substances allowed under § 205.603(d)(2) and (3) may be used in or on pet food intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “organic” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” pursuant to § 205.301(b) and (c). Pet food must be labeled pursuant to subpart D of this part.
§ 205.271
Facility pest management practice standard.
(a) The producer or handler of an organic facility must use management practices to prevent pests, including but not limited to:
(1) Removal of pest habitat, food sources, and breeding areas;
(2) Prevention of access to handling facilities; and
(3) Management of environmental factors, such as temperature, light, humidity, atmosphere, and air circulation, to prevent pest reproduction.
(b) Pests may be controlled through:
(1) Mechanical or physical controls including but not limited to traps, light, or sound; or
(2) Lures and repellents using nonsynthetic or synthetic substances consistent with the National List.
(c) If the practices provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not effective to prevent or control pests, a nonsynthetic or synthetic substance consistent with the National List may be applied.
(d) If the practices provided for in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section are not effective to prevent or control facility pests, a synthetic substance not on the National List may be applied:
Provided,
That, the handler and certifying agent agree on the substance, method of application, and measures to be taken to prevent contact of the organically produced products or ingredients with the substance used.
(e) The handler of an organic handling operation who applies a nonsynthetic or synthetic substance to prevent or control pests must update the operation's organic handling plan to reflect the use of such substances and methods of application. The updated organic plan must include a list of all measures taken to prevent contact of the organically produced products or ingredients with the substance used.
(f) Notwithstanding the practices provided for in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a handler may otherwise use substances to prevent or control pests as required by Federal, State, or local laws and regulations:
Provided,
That, measures are taken to prevent contact of the organically produced products or ingredients with the substance used.
§ 205.272
Commingling and contact with prohibited substance prevention practice standard.
(a) The handler of an organic handling operation must implement measures necessary to prevent the commingling of organic and nonorganic products and protect organic products from contact with prohibited substances.
(b) The following are prohibited for use in the handling of any organically produced agricultural product or ingredient labeled in accordance with subpart D of this part:
(1) Packaging materials, and storage containers, or bins that contain a synthetic fungicide, preservative, or fumigant;
(2) The use or reuse of any bag or container that has been in contact with any substance in such a manner as to compromise the organic integrity of any organically produced product or ingredient placed in those containers, unless such reusable bag or container has been thoroughly cleaned and poses no risk of contact of the organically
produced product or ingredient with the substance used.
§ 205.273
Imports to the United States.
Each shipment of organic agricultural products imported into the United States must be certified pursuant to subpart E of this part, labeled pursuant to subpart D of this part, be declared as organic to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and be associated with valid NOP Import Certificate data.
(a) Persons exporting organic agricultural products to the United States must request an NOP Import Certificate from a certifying agent prior to their export. Only certifying agents accredited by the USDA or foreign certifying agents authorized under an organic trade arrangement or agreement may issue an NOP Import Certificate.
(b) The certifying agent must review an NOP Import Certificate request and determine whether the export complies with the USDA organic regulations. The certifying agent must have and implement a documented organic control system for intaking and approving or rejecting the validity of an NOP Import Certificate request. The certifying agent shall issue the NOP Import Certificate through the Organic Integrity Database only if the export complies with the USDA organic regulations.
(c) Each compliant organic import must be declared as organic to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by entering NOP Import Certificate data into the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Automated Commercial Environment system. Organic imports must be clearly identified and marked as organic on all import documents including but not limited to invoices, packing lists, bills of lading, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection entry data. Only NOP Import Certificate data generated by the Organic Integrity Database are valid.
(d) Upon receiving a shipment with organic agricultural products, the organic importer must ensure the import is accompanied by accurate NOP Import Certificate data and must verify that the shipment has had no contact with prohibited substances pursuant to § 205.272 or exposure to ionizing radiation pursuant to § 205.105, since export. The organic importer must have a documented organic control system to conduct this verification.
[88 FR 3622, Jan. 19, 2023]
§§ 205.274-205.289
[Reserved]
§ 205.290
Temporary variances.
(a) Temporary variances from the requirements in §§ 205.203 through 205.207, 205.236 through 205.240 and 205.270 through 205.272 may be established by the Administrator for the following reasons:
(1) Natural disasters declared by the Secretary;
(2) Damage caused by drought, wind, flood, excessive moisture, hail, tornado, earthquake, fire, or other business interruption; and
(3) Practices used for the purpose of conducting research or trials of techniques, varieties, or ingredients used in organic production or handling.
(b) A State organic program's governing State official or certifying agent may recommend in writing to the Administrator that a temporary variance from a standard set forth in subpart C of this part for organic production or handling operations be established:
Provided,
That, such variance is based on one or more of the reasons listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The Administrator will provide written notification to certifying agents upon establishment of a temporary variance applicable to the certifying agent's certified production or handling operations and specify the period of time it shall remain in effect, subject to extension as the Administrator deems necessary.
(d) A certifying agent, upon notification from the Administrator of the establishment of a temporary variance, must notify each production or handling operation it certifies to which the temporary variance applies.
(e) Temporary variances will not be granted for any practice, material, or procedure prohibited under § 205.105.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 7194, Feb. 17, 2010]
§§ 205.291-205.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Labels, Labeling, and Market Information
§ 205.300
Use of the term, “organic.”
(a) The term, “organic,” may only be used on labels and in labeling of raw or processed agricultural products, including ingredients, that have been produced and handled in accordance with the regulations in this part. The term, “organic,” may not be used in a product name to modify a nonorganic ingredient in the product.
(b) Products for export, produced and certified to foreign national organic standards or foreign contract buyer requirements, may be labeled in accordance with the organic labeling requirements of the receiving country or contract buyer:
Provided,
That, the shipping containers and shipping documents meet the labeling requirements specified in § 205.307(c).
(c) Products produced in a foreign country and exported for sale in the United States must be certified pursuant to subpart E of this part, labeled pursuant to this subpart D, and must comply with the requirements in § 205.273.
(d) Livestock feeds produced in accordance with the requirements of this part must be labeled in accordance with the requirements of § 205.306.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3622, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.301
Product composition.
(a)
Products sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic.”
A raw or processed agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) 100 percent organically produced ingredients. If labeled as organically produced, such product must be labeled pursuant to § 205.303.
(b)
Products sold, labeled, or represented as “organic.”
A raw or processed agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as “organic” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) not less than 95 percent organically produced raw or processed agricultural products. Any remaining product ingredients must be organically produced, unless not commercially available in organic form, or must be nonagricultural substances or nonorganically produced agricultural products produced consistent with the National List in subpart G of this part. If labeled as organically produced, such product must be labeled pursuant to § 205.303.
(c)
Products sold, labeled, or represented as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
Multiingredient agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) at least 70 percent organically produced ingredients which are produced and handled pursuant to requirements in subpart C of this part. No ingredients may be produced using prohibited practices specified in paragraphs (f)(1), (2), and (3) of § 205.301. Nonorganic ingredients may be produced without regard to paragraphs (f)(4), (5), (6), and (7) of § 205.301. If labeled as containing organically produced ingredients or food groups, such product must be labeled pursuant to § 205.304.
(d)
Products with less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients.
The organic ingredients in multiingredient agricultural product containing less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) must be produced and handled pursuant to requirements in subpart C of this part. The nonorganic ingredients may be produced and handled without regard to the requirements of this part. Multiingredient agricultural product containing less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients may represent the organic nature of the product only as provided in § 205.305.
(e)
Livestock feed.
(1) A raw or processed livestock feed product sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) not less than 100 percent organically produced raw or processed agricultural product.
(2) A raw or processed livestock feed product sold, labeled, or represented as
“organic” must be produced in conformance with § 205.237.
(f) All products labeled as “100 percent organic” or “organic” and all ingredients identified as “organic” in the ingredient statement of any product must not:
(1) Be produced using excluded methods, pursuant to § 205.105(e);
(2) Be processed using ionizing radiation, pursuant to § 205.105(f);
(3) Be produced using sewage sludge, pursuant to § 205.105(g);
(4) Be processed using processing aids not approved on the National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances in subpart G of this part: Except, That, products labeled as “100 percent organic,” if processed, must be processed using organically produced processing aids;
(5) Contain sulfites, nitrates, or nitrites added during the production or handling process, Except, that, wine containing added sulfites may be labeled “made with organic grapes”;
(6) Be produced using nonorganic ingredients when organic ingredients are available; or
(7) Include organic and nonorganic forms of the same ingredient.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015; 88 FR 3621, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.302
Calculating the percentage of organically produced ingredients.
(a) The percentage of all organically produced ingredients in an agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” or that include organic ingredients must be calculated by:
(1) Dividing the total net weight of the combined organic ingredients at formulation by the total weight of all ingredients of the product at formulation. Water and salt added as ingredients at formulation are excluded from the calculation.
(2) Dividing the total fluid volume of the combined organic ingredients at formulation by the total fluid volume of all ingredients of the product at formulation if the product and ingredients are liquid. Water and salt added as ingredients at formulation are excluded from the calculation. If the liquid product is identified on the principal display panel or information panel as being reconstituted from concentrates, the calculation should be made based on single-strength concentrations of all ingredients.
(3) For products containing organically produced ingredients in both solid and liquid form, dividing the combined net weight of the solid organic ingredients and the net weight of the liquid organic ingredients at formulation by the total weight of all ingredients of the product at formulation. Water and salt added as ingredients at formulation are excluded from the calculation.
(b) The percentage of all organically produced ingredients in an agricultural product must be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
(c) The percentage must be determined by the handler who affixes the label on the consumer package and verified by the certifying agent of the handler. The handler may use information provided by the certified operation in determining the percentage.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3622, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.303
Packaged products labeled “100 percent organic” or “organic.”
(a) Agricultural products in packages described in § 205.301(a) and (b) may display, on the principal display panel, information panel, and any other panel of the package and on any labeling or market information concerning the product, the following:
(1) The term, “100 percent organic” or “organic,” as applicable, to modify the name of the product;
(2) For products labeled “organic,” the percentage of organic ingredients in the product; (The size of the percentage statement must not exceed one-half the size of the largest type size on the panel on which the statement is displayed and must appear in its entirety in the same type size, style, and color without highlighting.)
(3) The term, “organic,” to identify the organic ingredients in multiingredient products labeled “100 percent organic”;
(4) The USDA seal; and/or
(5) The seal, logo, or other identifying mark of the certifying agent
which certified the production or handling operation producing the finished product and any other certifying agent which certified production or handling operations producing raw organic product or organic ingredients used in the finished product:
Provided,
That, the handler producing the finished product maintain records, pursuant to this part, verifying organic certification of the operations producing such ingredients, and:
Provided further,
That, such seals or marks are not individually displayed more prominently than the USDA seal.
(b) Agricultural products in packages described in § 205.301(a) and (b) must:
(1) For products labeled “organic,” identify each organic ingredient in the ingredient statement with the word, “organic,” or with an asterisk or other reference mark which is defined below the ingredient statement to indicate the ingredient is organically produced. Water or salt included as ingredients cannot be identified as organic.
(2) On the information panel, below the information identifying the handler or distributor of the product and preceded by the statement, “Certified organic by * * *,” or similar phrase, identify the name of the certifying agent that certified the handler of the finished product and may display the business address, Internet address, or telephone number of the certifying agent in such label.
§ 205.304
Packaged products labeled “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
(a) Agricultural products in packages described in § 205.301(c) may display on the principal display panel, information panel, and any other panel and on any labeling or market information concerning the product:
(1) The statement:
(i) “Made with organic (specified ingredients)”:
Provided,
That, the statement does not list more than three organically produced ingredients; or
(ii) “Made with organic (specified food groups)”:
Provided,
That, the statement does not list more than three of the following food groups: beans, fish, fruits, grains, herbs, meats, nuts, oils, poultry, seeds, spices, sweeteners, and vegetables or processed milk products; and,
Provided further,
That, all ingredients of each listed food group in the product must be organically produced; and
(iii) Which appears in letters that do not exceed one-half the size of the largest type size on the panel and which appears in its entirety in the same type size, style, and color without highlighting.
(2) The percentage of organic ingredients in the product. The size of the percentage statement must not exceed one-half the size of the largest type size on the panel on which the statement is displayed and must appear in its entirety in the same type size, style, and color without highlighting.
(3) The seal, logo, or other identifying mark of the certifying agent that certified the handler of the finished product.
(b) Agricultural products in packages described in § 205.301(c) must:
(1) In the ingredient statement, identify each organic ingredient with the word, “organic,” or with an asterisk or other reference mark which is defined below the ingredient statement to indicate the ingredient is organically produced. Water or salt included as ingredients cannot be identified as organic.
(2) On the information panel, below the information identifying the handler or distributor of the product and preceded by the statement, “Certified organic by * * *,” or similar phrase, identify the name of the certifying agent that certified the handler of the finished product:
Except,
That, the business address, Internet address, or telephone number of the certifying agent may be included in such label.
(c) Agricultural products in packages described in § 205.301(c) must not display the USDA seal.
§ 205.305
Multi-ingredient packaged products with less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients.
(a) An agricultural product with less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients may only identify the organic content of the product by:
(1) Identifying each organically produced ingredient in the ingredient statement with the word, “organic,” or with an asterisk or other reference
mark which is defined below the ingredient statement to indicate the ingredient is organically produced, and
(2) If the organically produced ingredients are identified in the ingredient statement, displaying the product's percentage of organic contents on the information panel.
(b) Agricultural products with less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients must not display:
(1) The USDA seal; and
(2) Any certifying agent seal, logo, or other identifying mark which represents organic certification of a product or product ingredients.
§ 205.306
Labeling of livestock feed.
(a) Livestock feed products described in § 205.301(e)(1) and (e)(2) may display on any package panel the following terms:
(1) The statement, “100 percent organic” or “organic,” as applicable, to modify the name of the feed product;
(2) The USDA seal;
(3) The seal, logo, or other identifying mark of the certifying agent which certified the production or handling operation producing the raw or processed organic ingredients used in the finished product,
Provided,
That, such seals or marks are not displayed more prominently than the USDA seal;
(4) The word, “organic,” or an asterisk or other reference mark which is defined on the package to identify ingredients that are organically produced. Water or salt included as ingredients cannot be identified as organic.
(b) Livestock feed products described in § 205.301(e)(1) and (e)(2) must:
(1) On the information panel, below the information identifying the handler or distributor of the product and preceded by the statement, “Certified organic by * * *,” or similar phrase, display the name of the certifying agent that certified the handler of the finished product. The business address, Internet address, or telephone number of the certifying agent may be included in such label.
(2) Comply with other Federal agency or State feed labeling requirements as applicable.
§ 205.307
Labeling of nonretail containers.
(a) Nonretail containers used to ship or store certified organic agricultural products must display:
(1) Identification of the product as organic; and
(2) The production lot number, shipping identification, or other unique information that links the container to audit trail documentation.
(b) Audit trail documentation for nonretail containers must identify the last certified operation that handled the agricultural product.
(c) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to nonretail containers used to ship or store agricultural products packaged for retail sale with organic identification visible on the retail label.
(d) Shipping containers of domestically produced product labeled as organic intended for export to international markets may be labeled in accordance with any shipping container labeling requirements of the foreign country of destination or the container labeling specifications of a foreign contract buyer: Provided, that, the shipping containers and shipping documents accompanying such organic products are clearly marked “For Export Only” and: Provided further, that proof of such container marking and export must be maintained by the handler in accordance with recordkeeping requirements for exempt operations under § 205.101.
[88 FR 3622, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.308
Agricultural products in other than packaged form at the point of retail sale that are sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic” or “organic.”
(a) Agricultural products in other than packaged form may use the term, “100 percent organic” or “organic,” as applicable, to modify the name of the product in retail display, labeling, and display containers:
Provided,
That, the term, “organic,” is used to identify the organic ingredients listed in the ingredient statement.
(b) If the product is prepared in a certified facility, the retail display, labeling, and display containers may use:
(1) The USDA seal; and
(2) The seal, logo, or other identifying mark of the certifying agent that certified the production or handling operation producing the finished product and any other certifying agent which certified operations producing raw organic product or organic ingredients used in the finished product:
Provided,
That, such seals or marks are not individually displayed more prominently than the USDA seal.
§ 205.309
Agricultural products in other than packaged form at the point of retail sale that are sold, labeled, or represented as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
(a) Agricultural products in other than packaged form containing between 70 and 95 percent organically produced ingredients may use the phrase, “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” to modify the name of the product in retail display, labeling, and display containers.
(1) Such statement must not list more than three organic ingredients or food groups, and
(2) In any such display of the product's ingredient statement, the organic ingredients are identified as “organic.”
(b) If prepared in a certified facility, such agricultural products labeled as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” in retail displays, display containers, and market information may display the certifying agent's seal, logo, or other identifying mark.
§ 205.310
Agricultural products produced or processed by an exempt operation.
(a) An agricultural product organically produced or processed by an exempt operation must not:
(1) Display the USDA seal or any certifying agent's seal or other identifying mark which represents the exempt operation as a certified organic operation; or
(2) Be represented as a certified organic product or certified organic ingredient to any buyer.
(b) An agricultural product organically produced or processed by an exempt operation may be identified as an organic product or organic ingredient in a multi-ingredient product produced by the exempt operation. Such product or ingredient must not be identified or represented as “organic” in a product processed by others.
(c) Such product is subject to requirements specified in paragraph (a) of § 205.300, and paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(7) of § 205.301.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3623, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.311
USDA Seal.
(a) The USDA seal described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be used only for raw or processed agricultural products described in paragraphs (a), (b), (e)(1), and (e)(2) of § 205.301.
(b) The USDA seal must replicate the form and design of the example in figure 1 and must be printed legibly and conspicuously:
(1) On a white background with a brown outer circle and with the term, “USDA,” in green overlaying a white upper semicircle and with the term, “organic,” in white overlaying the green lower half circle; or
(2) On a white or transparent background with black outer circle and black “USDA” on a white or transparent upper half of the circle with a contrasting white or transparent “organic” on the black lower half circle.
(3) The green or black lower half circle may have four light lines running from left to right and disappearing at the point on the right horizon to resemble a cultivated field.
ER21DE00.001
§§ 205.312-205.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Certification
§ 205.400
General requirements for certification.
A person seeking to receive or maintain organic certification under the regulations in this part must:
(a) Comply with the Act and applicable organic production and handling regulations of this part;
(b) Establish, implement, and update annually an organic production or handling system plan that is submitted to an accredited certifying agent as provided for in § 205.201;
(c) Permit on-site inspections with complete access to the production or handling operation, including noncertified production and handling areas, structures, and offices by the certifying agent as provided for in § 205.403;
(d) Maintain all records applicable to the organic operation for not less than 5 years beyond their creation and allow authorized representatives of the Secretary, the applicable State organic program's governing State official, and the certifying agent access to such records during normal business hours for review and copying to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part, as provided for in § 205.103;
(e) Submit the applicable fees charged by the certifying agent; and
(f) Immediately notify the certifying agent concerning any:
(1) Application, including drift, of a prohibited substance to any field, production unit, site, facility, livestock, or product that is part of an operation; and
(2) Change in a certified operation or any portion of a certified operation that may affect its compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
(g) In addition to paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, a producer group operation must:
(1) Be organized as a person;
(2) Use centralized processing, distribution, and marketing facilities and systems;
(3) Be organized into producer group production units;
(4) Maintain an internal control system to implement the practices described in § 205.201(c) and ensure compliance with this part;
(5) Ensure that all agricultural products sold, labeled, or represented as organic are produced only by producer group members using land and facilities within the certified operation;
(6) Ensure that producer group members do not sell, label, or represent their agricultural products as organic outside of the producer group operation unless they are individually certified;
(7) Report to the certifying agent, at least annually, the name and location of all producer group members and producer group production units, the agricultural products produced, estimated yields, and size of production areas;
(8) Conduct internal inspections of each producer group member, at least annually, by internal inspectors with the member present, which must include mass-balance audits and reconciliation of each producer group member's and each producer group production unit's yield and group sales;
(9) Implement recordkeeping requirements to ensure traceability from production at each producer group member and production unit through handling to sale and transport;
(10) Implement procedures to ensure all production and handling by the producer group operation is compliant with the USDA organic regulations and the Act; and
(11) Address any other terms or conditions determined by the Administrator to be necessary to enforce compliance with the USDA organic regulations and the Act.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015; 88 FR 3623, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.401
Application for certification.
A person seeking certification of a production or handling operation under this subpart must submit an application for certification to a certifying agent. The application must include the following information:
(a) An organic production or handling system plan, as required in § 205.201;
(b) The name of the person completing the application; the applicant's business name, address, and telephone
number; and, when the applicant is a corporation, the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized to act on the applicant's behalf;
(c) The name(s) of any organic certifying agent(s) to which application has previously been made; the year(s) of application; the outcome of the application(s) submission, including, when available, a copy of any notification of noncompliance or denial of certification issued to the applicant for certification; and a description of the actions taken by the applicant to correct the noncompliances noted in the notification of noncompliance, including evidence of such correction; and
(d) Other information necessary to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3623, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.402
Review of application.
(a) Upon acceptance of an application for certification, a certifying agent must:
(1) Review the application to ensure completeness pursuant to § 205.401;
(2) Determine by a review of the application materials whether the applicant appears to comply or may be able to comply with the applicable requirements of subpart C of this part;
(3) Verify that an applicant who previously applied to another certifying agent and received a notification of noncompliance or denial of certification, pursuant to § 205.405, has submitted documentation to support the correction of any noncompliances identified in the notification of noncompliance or denial of certification, as required in § 205.405(e); and
(4) Schedule an on-site inspection of the operation to determine whether the applicant qualifies for certification if the review of application materials reveals that the production or handling operation may be in compliance with the applicable requirements of subpart C of this part.
(b) The certifying agent shall within a reasonable time:
(1) Review the application materials received and communicate its findings to the applicant;
(2) Provide the applicant with a copy of the on-site inspection report, as approved by the certifying agent, for any on-site inspection performed; and
(3) Provide the applicant with a copy of the test results for any samples taken by an inspector.
(c) The applicant may withdraw its application at any time. An applicant who withdraws its application shall be liable for the costs of services provided up to the time of withdrawal of its application. An applicant that voluntarily withdrew its application prior to the issuance of a notice of noncompliance will not be issued a notice of noncompliance. Similarly, an applicant that voluntarily withdrew its application prior to the issuance of a notice of certification denial will not be issued a notice of certification denial.
§ 205.403
On-site inspections.
(a)
On-site inspections.
(1) A certifying agent must conduct an initial on-site inspection of each production unit, facility, and site that produces or handles organic products and that is included in an operation for which certification is requested. An on-site inspection shall be conducted annually thereafter for each certified operation that produces or handles organic products for the purpose of determining whether to approve the request for certification or whether the certification of the operation should continue.
(2) Inspections of a producer group operation must:
(i) Assess the internal control system's compliance, or ability to comply, with the requirements of § 205.400(g)(8). This must include review of the internal inspections conducted by the internal control system.
(ii) Conduct witness audits of internal control system inspectors performing inspections of the producer group operation.
(iii) Individually inspect at least 1.4 times the square root or 2% of the total number of producer group members, whichever is higher. All producer group members determined to be high risk by the certifying agent must be inspected. At least one producer group member in each producer group production unit must be inspected.
(iv) Inspect each handling facility.
(3)(i) A certifying agent may conduct additional on-site inspections of applicants for certification and certified operations to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
(ii) The Administrator or State organic program's governing State official may require that additional inspections be performed by the certifying agent for the purpose of determining compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
(iii) Additional inspections may be announced or unannounced at the discretion of the certifying agent or as required by the Administrator or State organic program's governing State official.
(b)
Unannounced inspections.
(1) A certifying agent must, on an annual basis, conduct unannounced inspections of a minimum of five percent of the operations it certifies, rounded up to the nearest whole number.
(2) Certifying agents must be able to conduct unannounced inspections of any operation they certify and must not accept applications or continue certification with operations located in areas where they are unable to conduct unannounced inspections.
(c)
Scheduling.
(1) The initial on-site inspection must be conducted within a reasonable time following a determination that the applicant appears to comply or may be able to comply with the requirements of subpart C of this part:
Except,
That, the initial inspection may be delayed for up to 6 months to comply with the requirement that the inspection be conducted when the land, facilities, and activities that demonstrate compliance or capacity to comply can be observed.
(2) All on-site inspections must be conducted when an authorized representative of the operation who is knowledgeable about the operation is present and at a time when land, facilities, and activities that demonstrate the operation's compliance with or capability to comply with the applicable provisions of subpart C of this part can be observed, except that this requirement does not apply to unannounced on-site inspections.
(d)
Verification of information.
The on-site inspection of an operation must verify:
(1) The operation's compliance or capability to comply with the Act and the regulations in this part;
(2) That the information, including the organic production or handling system plan, provided in accordance with §§ 205.401, 205.406, and 205.201, accurately reflects the practices used or to be used by the applicant for certification or by the certified operation;
(3) That prohibited substances have not been and are not being applied to the operation through means which, at the discretion of the certifying agent, may include the collection and testing of soil; water; waste; seeds; plant tissue; and plant, animal, and processed products samples.
(4) Mass-balances, in that quantities of organic product and ingredients produced or purchased account for organic product and ingredients used, stored, sold, or transported (that is, inputs account for outputs); and
(5) That organic products and ingredients are traceable by the operation from the time of purchase or acquisition through production to sale or transport; and that the certifying agent can verify compliance back to the last certified operation.
(e)
Exit interview.
The inspector must conduct an exit interview with an authorized representative of the operation who is knowledgeable about the inspected operation to confirm the accuracy and completeness of inspection observations and information gathered during the on-site inspection. The inspector must also address the need for any additional information as well as any issues of concern.
(f)
Documents to the inspected operation.
(1) At the time of the inspection, the inspector shall provide the operation's authorized representative with a receipt for any samples taken by the inspector. There shall be no charge to the inspector for the samples taken.
(2) A copy of the on-site inspection report and any test results will be sent to the inspected operation by the certifying agent.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3623, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.404
Granting certification.
(a) Within a reasonable time after completion of the initial on-site inspection, a certifying agent must review the on-site inspection report, the results of any analyses for substances conducted, and any additional information requested from or supplied by the applicant. If the certifying agent determines that the organic system plan and all procedures and activities of the applicant's operation are in compliance with the requirements of this part and that the applicant is able to conduct operations in accordance with the plan, the agent shall grant certification. The certification may include requirements for the correction of minor noncompliances within a specified time period as a condition of continued certification.
(b) The certifying agent must issue a certificate of organic operation. The certificate of organic operation must be generated from the Organic Integrity Database and may be provided to certified operations electronically.
(c) In addition to the certificate of organic operation provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, a certifying agent may issue its own addenda to the certificate of organic operation. If issued, any addenda must include:
(1) Name, address, and contact information for the certified operation;
(2) The certified operation's unique ID number/code that corresponds to the certified operation's ID number/code in the Organic Integrity Database;
(3) A link to the Organic Integrity Database or a link to the certified operation's profile in the Organic Integrity Database, along with a statement, “You may verify the certification of this operation at the Organic Integrity Database,” or a similar statement;
(4) Name, address, and contact information of the certifying agent; and
(5) “Addendum issue date.”
(d) Once certified, a production or handling operation's organic certification continues in effect until surrendered by the organic operation or suspended or revoked by the certifying agent, the State organic program's governing State official, or the Administrator.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended of 88 FR 3623, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.405
Denial of certification.
(a) When the certifying agent has reason to believe, based on a review of the information specified in § 205.402 or § 205.404, that an applicant for certification is not able to comply or is not in compliance with the requirements of this part, the certifying agent must provide a written notification of noncompliance to the applicant. When correction of a noncompliance is not possible, a notification of noncompliance and a notification of denial of certification may be combined in one notification. The notification of noncompliance shall provide:
(1) A description of each noncompliance;
(2) The facts upon which the notification of noncompliance is based; and
(3) The date by which the applicant must rebut or correct each noncompliance and submit supporting documentation of each such correction when correction is possible.
(b) Upon receipt of such notification of noncompliance, the applicant may:
(1) Correct noncompliances and submit a description of the corrective actions taken with supporting documentation to the certifying agent;
(2) Correct noncompliances and submit a new application to another certifying agent:
Provided,
That, the applicant must include a complete application, the notification of noncompliance received from the first certifying agent, and a description of the corrective actions taken with supporting documentation; or
(3) Submit written information to the issuing certifying agent to rebut the noncompliance described in the notification of noncompliance.
(c) After issuance of a notification of noncompliance, the certifying agent must:
(1) Evaluate the applicant's corrective actions taken and supporting documentation submitted or the written rebuttal, conduct an on-site inspection if necessary, and
(i) When the corrective action or rebuttal is sufficient for the applicant to qualify for certification, issue the applicant an approval of certification pursuant to § 205.404; or
(ii) When the corrective action or rebuttal is not sufficient for the applicant to qualify for certification, issue the applicant a written notice of denial of certification.
(2) Issue a written notice of denial of certification to an applicant who fails to respond to the notification of noncompliance.
(d) A notice of denial of certification must state the reason(s) for denial and the applicant's right to:
(1) Reapply for certification pursuant to §§ 205.401 and 205.405(e);
(2) Request mediation pursuant to § 205.663 or, if applicable, pursuant to a State organic program; or
(3) File an appeal of the denial of certification pursuant to § 205.681 or, if applicable, pursuant to a State organic program.
(e) An applicant for certification who has received a written notification of noncompliance or a written notice of denial of certification may apply for certification again at any time with any certifying agent, in accordance with §§ 205.401 and 205.405(e). When such applicant submits a new application to a certifying agent other than the agent who issued the notification of noncompliance or notice of denial of certification, the applicant for certification must include a copy of the notification of noncompliance or notice of denial of certification and a description of the actions taken, with supporting documentation, to correct the noncompliances noted in the notification of noncompliance.
(f) A certifying agent who receives a new application for certification, which includes a notification of noncompliance or a notice of denial of certification, must treat the application as a new application and begin a new application process pursuant to § 205.402.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a certifying agent has reason to believe that an applicant for certification has willfully made a false statement or otherwise purposefully misrepresented the applicant's operation or its compliance with the certification requirements pursuant to this part, the certifying agent may deny certification pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section without first issuing a notification of noncompliance.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3624, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.406
Continuation of certification.
(a) To continue certification, a certified operation must annually pay the certification fees and submit the following information to the certifying agent:
(1) A summary statement, supported by documentation, detailing any deviations from, changes to, modifications to, or other amendments made to the organic system plan submitted during the previous year;
(2) Any additions or deletions to the previous year's organic system plan, intended to be undertaken in the coming year, detailed pursuant to § 205.201;
(3) Any additions to or deletions from the information required pursuant to § 205.401(b); and
(4) Other information as deemed necessary by the certifying agent to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
(b) The certifying agent must arrange and conduct an on-site inspection, pursuant to § 205.403, of the certified operation at least once per calendar year.
(c) If the certifying agent has reason to believe, based on the on-site inspection and a review of the information specified in § 205.404, that a certified operation is not complying with the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part, the certifying agent shall provide a written notification of noncompliance to the operation in accordance with § 205.662.
(d) If the certifying agent determines that the certified operation is complying with the Act and the regulations in this part and that any of the information specified on the certificate of organic operation has changed, the certifying agent must issue an updated certificate of organic operation pursuant to § 205.404(b).
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3624, Jan. 19, 2023]
§§ 205.407-205.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Accreditation of Certifying Agents
§ 205.500
Areas and duration of accreditation.
(a) The Administrator shall accredit a qualified domestic or foreign applicant in the areas of crops, livestock, wild crops, or handling or any combination thereof to certify a domestic or foreign production or handling operation as a certified operation.
(b) Accreditation shall be for a period of 5 years from the date of approval of accreditation pursuant to § 205.506.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3624, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.501
General requirements for accreditation.
(a) A private or governmental entity accredited as a certifying agent under this subpart must:
(1) Have sufficient expertise in organic production or handling techniques to fully comply with and implement the terms and conditions of the organic certification program established under the Act and the regulations in this part;
(2) Demonstrate the ability to fully comply with the requirements for accreditation set forth in this subpart;
(3) Carry out the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this part, including the provisions of §§ 205.402 through 205.406 and § 205.670;
(4) Continuously use a sufficient number of qualified and adequately trained personnel, including inspectors and certification review personnel, to comply with and implement the USDA organic standards.
(i) Certifying agents must demonstrate that all inspectors, including staff, volunteers, and contractors, have the relevant knowledge, skills, and experience required to inspect operations of the scope and complexity assigned and to evaluate compliance with the applicable regulations of this part.
(A) Certifying agents must demonstrate that inspectors continuously maintain adequate knowledge and skills about the current USDA organic standards, production and handling practices, certification and inspection, import and/or export requirements, traceability audits, mass-balance audits, written and oral communication skills, sample collection, investigation techniques, and preparation of technically accurate inspection documents.
(B) All inspectors must demonstrate successful completion of training that is relevant to inspection. Inspectors with less than one year of inspection experience must complete at least 50 hours of training within their first year and prior to performing inspections independently. Inspectors with one or more years of inspection experience must annually complete at least 10 hours of training if inspecting one area of operation (as defined at § 205.2) and an additional 5 hours of training for each additional area of operation inspected.
(C) Certifying agents must demonstrate that inspectors have a minimum of 2,000 hours of experience relevant to the scope and complexity of operations they will inspect before assigning initial inspection responsibilities.
(ii) Certifying agents must demonstrate that all certification review personnel, including staff, volunteers, or contractors, have the knowledge, skills, and experience required to perform certification review of operations of the scope and complexity assigned and to evaluate compliance with the applicable regulations of this part.
(A) Certifying agents must demonstrate that all certification review personnel continuously maintain adequate knowledge and skills in the current USDA organic standards, certification and compliance processes, traceability audits, mass-balance audits, and practices applicable to the type, volume, and range of review activities assigned.
(B) All certification review personnel must demonstrate successful completion of training that is relevant to certification review. Certification review personnel with less than one year of certification review experience must complete at least 50 hours of training within their first year performing certification review. Certification review personnel with one or more years of certification review experience must
annually complete at least 10 hours of training if conducting certification review related to one area of operation and an additional 5 hours of training for each additional area of operation.
(iii) Certifying agents must maintain current training requirements, training procedures, and training records for all inspectors and certification review personnel.
(5) Demonstrate that all persons with inspection or certification review responsibilities have sufficient expertise in organic production or handling techniques to successfully perform the duties assigned. Sufficient expertise must include knowledge of certification to USDA organic standards and evidence of education, training, or professional experience in the fields of agriculture, science, or organic production and handling that relates to assigned duties.
(6) Conduct an annual performance evaluation of all persons who conduct inspections, certification review, or implement measures to correct any deficiencies in certification services.
(i) Witness inspections—certifying agents must ensure that each inspector is evaluated while performing an inspection at least once every three years, or more frequently if warranted. Inspectors with less than three years of inspection experience must undergo a witness inspection annually. Witness inspections must be performed by certifying agent personnel who are qualified to evaluate inspectors.
(ii) Certifying agents must maintain documented policies, procedures, and records for annual performance evaluations and witness inspections.
(7) Have an annual program review of its certification activities conducted by the certifying agent's staff, an outside auditor, or a consultant who has expertise to conduct such reviews and implement measures to correct any noncompliances with the Act and the regulations in this part that are identified in the evaluation;
(8) Provide sufficient information to persons seeking certification to enable them to comply with the applicable requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part;
(9) Maintain all records pursuant to § 205.510(b) and make all such records available for inspection and copying during normal business hours by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the applicable State organic program's governing State official;
(10) Maintain strict confidentiality with respect to its clients under the applicable organic certification program and not disclose to third parties (except for the Secretary or the applicable State organic program's governing State official or their authorized representatives) any business-related information concerning any client obtained while implementing the regulations in this part, except:
(i) For information that must be made available to any member of the public, as provided for in § 205.504(b)(5);
(ii) For enforcement purposes, certifying agents must exchange any compliance-related information that is credibly needed to certify, decertify, or investigate an operation, including for the purpose of verifying supply chain traceability and audit trail documentation; and
(iii) If a certified operation's proprietary business information is compliance-related and thus credibly needed to certify, decertify, or investigate that operation, certifying agents may exchange that information for the purposes of enforcing the Act, but the information in question still retains its proprietary character even after it is exchanged and all of the certifying agents that are involved in the exchange still have a duty to preserve the confidentiality of that information after the exchange.
(11) Prevent conflicts of interest by:
(i) Not certifying a production or handling operation if the certifying agent or a responsibly connected party of such certifying agent has or has held a commercial interest in the production or handling operation, including an immediate family interest or the provision of consulting services, within the 12-month period prior to the application for certification;
(ii) Excluding any person, including contractors, with conflicts of interest from work, discussions, and decisions in all stages of the certification process and the monitoring of certified production or handling operations for all entities in which such person has or
has held a commercial interest, including an immediate family interest or the provision of consulting services, within the 12-month period prior to the application for certification;
(iii) Not permitting any employee, inspector, contractor, or other personnel to accept payment, gifts, or favors of any kind, other than prescribed fees, from any business inspected:
Except,
That, a certifying agent that is a not-for-profit organization with an Internal Revenue Code tax exemption or, in the case of a foreign certifying agent, a comparable recognition of not-for-profit status from its government, may accept voluntary labor from certified operations;
(iv) Not giving advice or providing consultancy services, to certification applicants or certified operations, for overcoming identified barriers to certification;
(v) Requiring all persons who review applications for certification, perform on-site inspections, review certification documents, evaluate qualifications for certification, make recommendations concerning certification, or make certification decisions and all parties responsibly connected to the certifying agent to complete an annual conflict of interest disclosure report; and
(vi) Ensuring that the decision to certify an operation is made by a person different from those who conducted the review of documents and on-site inspection.
(12)(i) Reconsider a certified operation's application for certification and, if necessary, perform a new on-site inspection when it is determined, within 12 months of certifying the operation, that any person participating in the certification process and covered under § 205.501(a)(11)(ii) has or had a conflict of interest involving the applicant. All costs associated with a reconsideration of application, including onsite inspection costs, shall be borne by the certifying agent.
(ii) Refer a certified operation to a different accredited certifying agent for recertification and reimburse the operation for the cost of the recertification when it is determined that any person covered under § 205.501(a)(11)(i) at the time of certification of the applicant had a conflict of interest involving the applicant.
(13) Accept the certification decisions made by another certifying agent accredited or accepted by USDA pursuant to § 205.500. Certifying agents must provide information to other certifying agents to ensure organic integrity or to enforce organic regulations, including to verify supply chain integrity, authenticate the organic status of certified products, and conduct investigations;
(14) Refrain from making false or misleading claims about its accreditation status, the USDA accreditation program for certifying agents, or the nature or qualities of products labeled as organically produced;
(15) Maintain current and accurate data in the Organic Integrity Database for each operation which it certifies;
(16) Charge applicants for certification and certified production and handling operations only those fees and charges for certification activities that it has filed with the Administrator;
(17) Pay and submit fees to AMS in accordance with § 205.640;
(18) Provide the inspector, prior to each on-site inspection, with previous on-site inspection reports and notify the inspector of its decision regarding certification of the production or handling operation site inspected by the inspector and of any requirements for the correction of minor noncompliances;
(19) Accept all production or handling applications that fall within its area(s) of accreditation and certify all qualified applicants, to the extent of its administrative capacity to do so without regard to size or membership in any association or group; and
(20) Demonstrate its ability to comply with a State's organic program to certify organic production or handling operations within the State.
(21) Conduct risk-based supply chain traceability audits as described in the criteria and procedures for supply chain audits, per § 205.504(b)(7), and share audit findings with other certifying agents as needed to determine compliance, per paragraph (a)(13) of this section.
(22) Notify AMS not later than 90 calendar days after certification activities
begin in a new certification office. The notification must include the countries where the certification activities are being provided, the nature of the certification activities, and the qualifications of the personnel providing the certification activities.
(23) Comply with, implement, and carry out any other terms and conditions determined by the Administrator to be necessary.
(b) A private or governmental entity accredited as a certifying agent under this subpart may establish a seal, logo, or other identifying mark to be used by production and handling operations certified by the certifying agent to indicate affiliation with the certifying agent:
Provided,
That, the certifying agent:
(1) Does not require use of its seal, logo, or other identifying mark on any product sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced as a condition of certification and
(2) Does not require compliance with any production or handling practices other than those provided for in the Act and the regulations in this part as a condition of use of its identifying mark:
Provided,
That, certifying agents certifying production or handling operations within a State with more restrictive requirements, approved by the Secretary, shall require compliance with such requirements as a condition of use of their identifying mark by such operations.
(c) A private entity accredited as a certifying agent must:
(1) Hold the Secretary harmless for any failure on the part of the certifying agent to carry out the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this part;
(2) Furnish reasonable security, in an amount and according to such terms as the Administrator may by regulation prescribe, for the purpose of protecting the rights of production and handling operations certified by such certifying agent under the Act and the regulations in this part; and
(3) Transfer to the Administrator and make available to any applicable State organic program's governing State official all records or copies of records concerning the person's certification activities in the event that the certifying agent dissolves or loses its accreditation;
Provided,
That, such transfer shall not apply to a merger, sale, or other transfer of ownership of a certifying agent.
(d) No private or governmental entity accredited as a certifying agent under this subpart shall exclude from participation in or deny the benefits of the National Organic Program to any person due to discrimination because of race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, or marital or family status.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3624, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.502
Applying for accreditation.
(a) A private or governmental entity seeking accreditation as a certifying agent under this subpart must submit an application for accreditation which contains the applicable information and documents set forth in §§ 205.503 through 205.505 and the fees required in § 205.640 to: Program Manager, USDA-AMS-NOP, 1400 Independence Ave. SW., Room 2648 So. Bldg., Ag Stop 0268, Washington, DC 20250-0268.
(b) Following the receipt of the information and documents, the Administrator will determine, pursuant to § 205.506, whether the applicant for accreditation should be accredited as a certifying agent.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015]
§ 205.503
Applicant information.
A private or governmental entity seeking accreditation as a certifying agent must submit the following information:
(a) The business name, primary office location, mailing address, name of the person(s) responsible for the certifying agent's day-to-day operations, contact numbers (telephone, facsimile, and Internet address) of the applicant, and, for an applicant who is a private person, the entity's taxpayer identification number;
(b) The name, office location, mailing address, and contact numbers (telephone, facsimile, and Internet address) for each of its organizational units, such as chapters or subsidiary offices,
and the name of a contact person for each unit;
(c) Each area of operation (crops, wild crops, livestock, or handling) for which accreditation is requested and the estimated number of each type of operation anticipated to be certified annually by the applicant along with a copy of the applicant's schedule of fees for all services to be provided under these regulations by the applicant;
(d) The type of entity the applicant is (e.g., government agricultural office, for-profit business, not-for-profit membership association) and for:
(1) A governmental entity, a copy of the official's authority to conduct certification activities under the Act and the regulations in this part,
(2) A private entity, documentation showing the entity's status and organizational purpose, such as articles of incorporation and by-laws or ownership or membership provisions, and its date of establishment; and
(e) A list of each State or foreign country in which the applicant currently certifies production and handling operations and a list of each State or foreign country in which the applicant intends to certify production or handling operations.
§ 205.504
Evidence of expertise and ability.
A private or governmental entity seeking accreditation as a certifying agent must submit the following documents and information to demonstrate its expertise in organic production or handling techniques; its ability to fully comply with and implement the organic certification program established in §§ 205.100 and 205.101, 205.201 through 205.203, 205.300 through 205.303, 205.400 through 205.406, and 205.661 through 205.663; and its ability to comply with the requirements for accreditation set forth in § 205.501:
(a)
Personnel.
(1) A copy of the applicant's policies and procedures for training, evaluating, and supervising personnel;
(2) The name and position description of all personnel to be used in the certification operation, including administrative staff, certification inspectors, members of any certification review and evaluation committees, contractors, and all parties responsibly connected to the certifying agent;
(3) A description of the qualifications, including experience, training, and education in agriculture, organic production, and organic handling, for:
(i) Each inspector to be used by the applicant and
(ii) Each person to be designated by the applicant to review or evaluate applications for certification; and
(4) A description of any training that the applicant has provided or intends to provide to personnel to ensure that they comply with and implement the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part.
(b)
Administrative policies and procedures.
(1) A copy of the procedures to be used to evaluate certification applicants, make certification decisions, and issue certification certificates;
(2) A copy of the procedures to be used for reviewing and investigating certified operation compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part and the reporting of violations of the Act and the regulations in this part to the Administrator;
(3) A copy of the procedures to be used for complying with the recordkeeping requirements set forth in § 205.501(a)(9);
(4) A copy of the procedures to be used for sharing information with other certifying agents and for maintaining the confidentiality of any business-related information as set forth in § 205.501(a)(10);
(5) A copy of the procedures to be used, including any fees to be assessed, for making the following information available to any member of the public upon request:
(i) Certification certificates issued during the current and 3 preceding calendar years;
(ii) A list of producers and handlers whose operations it has certified, including for each the name of the operation, type(s) of operation, products produced, and the effective date of the certification, during the current and 3 preceding calendar years;
(iii) The results of laboratory analyses for residues of pesticides and other prohibited substances conducted during the current and 3 preceding calendar years; and
(iv) Other business information as permitted in writing by the producer or handler; and
(6) A copy of the procedures to be used for sampling and residue testing pursuant to § 205.670.
(7) A copy of the criteria to identify high-risk operations and agricultural products for supply chain traceability audits; and procedures to conduct risk-based supply chain traceability audits, as required in § 205.501(a)(21); and procedures to report credible evidence of organic fraud to the Administrator.
(8) A copy of reasonable decision criteria for acceptance of mediation, and a process for identifying personnel conducting mediation and setting up mediation.
(c)
Conflicts of interest.
(1) A copy of procedures intended to be implemented to prevent the occurrence of conflicts of interest, as described in § 205.501(a)(11).
(2) For all persons who review applications for certification, perform on-site inspections, review certification documents, evaluate qualifications for certification, make recommendations concerning certification, or make certification decisions and all parties responsibly connected to the certifying agent, a conflict of interest disclosure report, identifying any food- or agriculture-related business interests, including business interests of immediate family members, that cause a conflict of interest.
(d)
Current certification activities.
An applicant who currently certifies production or handling operations must submit: (1) A list of all production and handling operations currently certified by the applicant;
(2) Copies of at least 3 different inspection reports and certification evaluation documents for production or handling operations certified by the applicant during the previous year for each area of operation for which accreditation is requested; and
(3) The results of any accreditation process of the applicant's operation by an accrediting body during the previous year for the purpose of evaluating its certification activities.
(e)
Other information.
Any other information the applicant believes may assist in the Administrator's evaluation of the applicant's expertise and ability.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3625, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.505
Statement of agreement.
(a) A private or governmental entity seeking accreditation under this subpart must sign and return a statement of agreement prepared by the Administrator which affirms that, if granted accreditation as a certifying agent under this subpart, the applicant will carry out the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this part, including:
(1) Accept the certification decisions made by another certifying agent accredited or accepted by USDA pursuant to § 205.500;
(2) Refrain from making false or misleading claims about its accreditation status, the USDA accreditation program for certifying agents, or the nature or qualities of products labeled as organically produced;
(3) Conduct an annual performance evaluation of all persons who review applications for certification, perform on-site inspections, review certification documents, evaluate qualifications for certification, make recommendations concerning certification, or make certification decisions and implement measures to correct any deficiencies in certification services;
(4) Have an annual internal program review conducted of its certification activities by certifying agent staff, an outside auditor, or a consultant who has the expertise to conduct such reviews and implement measures to correct any noncompliances with the Act and the regulations in this part;
(5) Pay and submit fees to AMS in accordance with § 205.640; and
(6) Comply with, implement, and carry out any other terms and conditions determined by the Administrator to be necessary.
(b) A private entity seeking accreditation as a certifying agent under this subpart must additionally agree to:
(1) Hold the Secretary harmless for any failure on the part of the certifying agent to carry out the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this part;
(2) Furnish reasonable security, in an amount and according to such terms as the Administrator may by regulation prescribe, for the purpose of protecting the rights of production and handling operations certified by such certifying agent under the Act and the regulations in this part; and
(3) Transfer to the Administrator and make available to the applicable State organic program's governing State official all records or copies of records concerning the certifying agent's certification activities in the event that the certifying agent dissolves or loses its accreditation;
Provided,
That such transfer shall not apply to a merger, sale, or other transfer of ownership of a certifying agent.
§ 205.506
Granting accreditation.
(a) Accreditation will be granted when:
(1) The accreditation applicant has submitted the information required by §§ 205.503 through 205.505;
(2) The accreditation applicant pays the required fee in accordance with § 205.640(c); and
(3) The Administrator determines that the applicant for accreditation meets the requirements for accreditation as stated in § 205.501, as determined by a review of the information submitted in accordance with §§ 205.503 through 205.505 and, if necessary, a review of the information obtained from a site evaluation as provided for in § 205.508.
(b) On making a determination to approve an application for accreditation, the Administrator will notify the applicant of the granting of accreditation in writing, stating:
(1) The area(s) for which accreditation is given;
(2) The effective date of the accreditation;
(3) Any terms and conditions for the correction of minor noncompliances; and
(4) For a certifying agent who is a private entity, the amount and type of security that must be established to protect the rights of production and handling operations certified by such certifying agent.
(c) The accreditation of a certifying agent shall continue in effect until such time as the certifying agent fails to renew accreditation as provided in § 205.510(c), the certifying agent voluntarily ceases its certification activities, or accreditation is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 205.665.
§ 205.507
Denial of accreditation.
(a) If the Program Manager has reason to believe, based on a review of the information specified in §§ 205.503 through 205.505 or after a site evaluation as specified in § 205.508, that an applicant for accreditation is not able to comply or is not in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part, the Program Manager shall provide a written notification of noncompliance to the applicant. Such notification shall provide:
(1) A description of each noncompliance;
(2) The facts upon which the notification of noncompliance is based; and
(3) The date by which the applicant must rebut or correct each noncompliance and submit supporting documentation of each such correction when correction is possible.
(b) When each noncompliance has been resolved, the Program Manager will send the applicant a written notification of noncompliance resolution and proceed with further processing of the application.
(c) If an applicant fails to correct the noncompliances, fails to report the corrections by the date specified in the notification of noncompliance, fails to file a rebuttal of the notification of noncompliance by the date specified, or is unsuccessful in its rebuttal, the Program Manager will provide the applicant with written notification of accreditation denial. An applicant who has received written notification of accreditation denial may apply for accreditation again at any time in accordance with § 205.502, or appeal the denial of accreditation in accordance with § 205.681 by the date specified in the notification of accreditation denial.
(d) If the certifying agent was accredited prior to the site evaluation and the certifying agent fails to correct the noncompliances, fails to report the corrections by the date specified in the notification of noncompliance, or fails to
file a rebuttal of the notification of noncompliance by the date specified, the Administrator will begin proceedings to suspend or revoke the certifying agent's accreditation. A certifying agent who has had its accreditation suspended may at any time, unless otherwise stated in the notification of suspension, submit a request to the Secretary for reinstatement of its accreditation. The request must be accompanied by evidence demonstrating correction of each noncompliance and corrective actions taken to comply with and remain in compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part. A certifying agent whose accreditation is revoked will be ineligible for accreditation for a period of not less than 3 years following the date of such determination.
§ 205.508
Site evaluations.
(a) Site evaluations of accredited certifying agents shall be conducted for the purpose of examining the certifying agent's operations and evaluating its compliance with the Act and the regulations of this part. Site evaluations shall include an on-site review of the certifying agent's certification procedures, decisions, facilities, administrative and management systems, and production or handling operations certified by the certifying agent. Site evaluations shall be conducted by a representative(s) of the Administrator.
(b) An initial site evaluation of an accreditation applicant shall be conducted before or within a reasonable period of time after issuance of the applicant's “notification of accreditation.” A site evaluation shall be conducted after application for renewal of accreditation but prior to the issuance of a notice of renewal of accreditation. One or more site evaluations will be conducted during the period of accreditation to determine whether an accredited certifying agent is complying with the general requirements set forth in § 205.501.
§ 205.509
Peer review panel.
The Administrator shall establish a peer review panel pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) (5 U.S.C. App. 2
et seq.
). The peer review panel shall be composed of not less than 3 members who shall annually evaluate the National Organic Program's adherence to the accreditation procedures in this subpart F and ISO/IEC Guide 61, General requirements for assessment and accreditation of certification/registration bodies, and the National Organic Program's accreditation decisions. This shall be accomplished through the review of accreditation procedures, document review and site evaluation reports, and accreditation decision documents or documentation. The peer review panel shall report its finding, in writing, to the National Organic Program's Program Manager.
§ 205.510
Annual report, recordkeeping, and renewal of accreditation.
(a)
Annual report and fees.
An accredited certifying agent must submit annually to the Administrator, on or before the anniversary date of the issuance of the notification of accreditation, the following reports and fees:
(1) A complete and accurate update of information submitted pursuant to §§ 205.503 and 205.504;
(2) Information supporting any changes being requested in the areas of accreditation described in § 205.500;
(3) A description of the measures implemented in the previous year and any measures to be implemented in the coming year to satisfy any terms and conditions determined by the Administrator to be necessary, as specified in the most recent notification of accreditation or notice of renewal of accreditation;
(4) The results of the most recent performance evaluations and annual program review and a description of adjustments to the certifying agent's operation and procedures implemented or to be implemented in response to the performance evaluations and program review; and
(5) The fees required in § 205.640(a).
(b)
Recordkeeping.
Certifying agents must maintain records according to the following schedule:
(1) Records obtained from applicants for certification and certified operations must be maintained for not less than 5 years beyond their receipt;
(2) Records created by the certifying agent regarding applicants for certification and certified operations must be maintained for not less than 10 years beyond their creation; and
(3) Records created or received by the certifying agent pursuant to the accreditation requirements of this subpart F, excluding any records covered by § 205.510(b)(2), must be maintained for not less than 5 years beyond their creation or receipt.
(c)
Renewal of accreditation.
(1) The Administrator shall send the accredited certifying agent a notice of pending expiration of accreditation approximately 1 year prior to the scheduled date of expiration.
(2) An accredited certifying agent's application for accreditation renewal must be received at least 6 months prior to the fifth anniversary of issuance of the notification of accreditation and each subsequent renewal of accreditation. The accreditation of certifying agents who make timely application for renewal of accreditation will not expire during the renewal process. The accreditation of certifying agents who fail to make timely application for renewal of accreditation will expire as scheduled unless renewed prior to the scheduled expiration date. Certifying agents with an expired accreditation must not perform certification activities under the Act and the regulations of this part.
(3) Following receipt of the information submitted by the certifying agent in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and the results of a site evaluation, the Administrator will determine whether the certifying agent remains in compliance with the Act and the regulations of this part and should have its accreditation renewed.
(d)
Notice of renewal of accreditation.
Upon a determination that the certifying agent is in compliance with the Act and the regulations of this part, the Administrator will issue a notice of renewal of accreditation. The notice of renewal will specify any terms and conditions that must be addressed by the certifying agent and the time within which those terms and conditions must be satisfied.
(e)
Noncompliance.
Upon a determination that the certifying agent is not in compliance with the Act and the regulations of this part, the Administrator will initiate proceedings to suspend or revoke the certifying agent's accreditation.
(f)
Amending accreditation.
Amendment to scope of an accreditation may be requested at any time. The application for amendment shall be sent to the Administrator and shall contain information applicable to the requested change in accreditation, a complete and accurate update of the information submitted pursuant to §§ 205.503 and 205.504, and the applicable fees required in § 205.640.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015]
§ 205.511
Accepting foreign conformity assessment systems.
(a) Foreign product may be certified under the USDA organic regulations by a USDA-accredited certifying agent and imported for sale in the United States. Foreign product that is produced and handled under another country's organic certification program may be sold, labeled, or represented in the United States as organically produced if the U.S. Government determines that such country's organic certification program provides technical requirements and a conformity assessment system governing the production and handling of such products that are at least equivalent to the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part.
(b) Countries desiring to establish eligibility of product certified under that country's organic certification program to be sold, labeled, or represented in the United States as organically produced may request equivalence determinations from AMS. A foreign government must maintain compliance and enforcement mechanisms to ensure that its organic certification program is fully meeting the terms and conditions of any equivalence determination provided by the U.S. Government pursuant to this section. To request an equivalence determination, the requesting country must submit documentation that fully describes its technical requirements and conformity assessment system. If the U.S. Government determines it can
proceed, AMS will assess the country's organic certification program to evaluate if it is equivalent.
(c) USDA, working with other Federal agencies, will describe the scope of an equivalence determination.
(d) AMS will conduct regular reviews and reassessments of countries deemed equivalent to verify that the foreign government's technical requirements and conformity assessment system continue to be at least equivalent to the requirements of the Act and the regulations of this part, and will determine if the equivalence determination should be continued, amended, or terminated. AMS will determine the timing and scope of reviews and re-assessments based on, but not limited to, factors such as: the terms of the equivalence determination, changes to the foreign country's technical requirements or conformity assessment system, the results of previous reviews and re-assessments, instances of suspected or verified noncompliance issues, the volume of trade, and other factors contributing to the risk level of the equivalence determination.
(e) The U.S. Government may terminate an equivalence determination if the terms or conditions established under the equivalence determination are not met; if AMS determines that the country's technical requirements and/or conformity assessment program are no longer equivalent; if AMS determines that the foreign government's organic control system is inadequate to ensure that the country's organic certification program is fully meeting the terms and conditions under the equivalence determination; or for other good cause.
[88 FR 3625, Jan. 19, 2023]
§§ 205.512-205.599
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Administrative

# The National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances
§ 205.600
Evaluation criteria for allowed and prohibited substances, methods, and ingredients.
The following criteria will be utilized in the evaluation of substances or ingredients for the organic production and handling sections of the National List:
(a) Synthetic and nonsynthetic substances considered for inclusion on or deletion from the National List of allowed and prohibited substances will be evaluated using the criteria specified in the Act (7 U.S.C. 6517 and 6518).
(b) In addition to the criteria set forth in the Act, any synthetic substance used as a processing aid or adjuvant will be evaluated against the following criteria:
(1) The substance cannot be produced from a natural source and there are no organic substitutes;
(2) The substance's manufacture, use, and disposal do not have adverse effects on the environment and are done in a manner compatible with organic handling;
(3) The nutritional quality of the food is maintained when the substance is used, and the substance, itself, or its breakdown products do not have an adverse effect on human health as defined by applicable Federal regulations;
(4) The substance's primary use is not as a preservative or to recreate or improve flavors, colors, textures, or nutritive value lost during processing, except where the replacement of nutrients is required by law;
(5) The substance is listed as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) by Food and Drug Administration (FDA) when used in accordance with FDA's good manufacturing practices (GMP) and contains no residues of heavy metals or other contaminants in excess of tolerances set by FDA; and
(6) The substance is essential for the handling of organically produced agricultural products.
(c) Nonsynthetics used in organic processing will be evaluated using the criteria specified in the Act (7 U.S.C. 6517 and 6518).
§ 205.601
Synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024.
In accordance with restrictions specified in this section, the following synthetic substances may be used in organic crop production:
Provided,
That, use of such substances do not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water. Substances allowed by this
section, except disinfectants and sanitizers in paragraph (a) and those substances in paragraphs (c), (j), (k), (l), and (o) of this section, may only be used when the provisions set forth in § 205.206(a) through (d) prove insufficient to prevent or control the target pest.
(a) As algicide, disinfectants, and sanitizer, including irrigation system cleaning systems.
(1) Alcohols.
(i) Ethanol.
(ii) Isopropanol.
(2) Chlorine materials—For pre-harvest use, residual chlorine levels in the water in direct crop contact or as water from cleaning irrigation systems applied to soil must not exceed the maximum residual disinfectant limit under the Safe Drinking Water Act, except that chlorine products may be used in edible sprout production according to EPA label directions.
(i) Calcium hypochlorite.
(ii) Chlorine dioxide.
(iii) Hypochlorous acid—generated from electrolyzed water.
(iv) Potassium hypochlorite—for use in water for irrigation purposes.
(v) Sodium hypochlorite.
(3) Copper sulfate—for use as an algicide in aquatic rice systems, is limited to one application per field during any 24-month period. Application rates are limited to those which do not increase baseline soil test values for copper over a timeframe agreed upon by the producer and accredited certifying agent.
(4) Hydrogen peroxide.
(5) Ozone gas—for use as an irrigation system cleaner only.
(6) Peracetic acid—for use in disinfecting equipment, seed, and asexually propagated planting material. Also permitted in hydrogen peroxide formulations as allowed in § 205.601(a) at concentration of no more than 6% as indicated on the pesticide product label.
(7) Soap-based algicide/demossers.
(8) Sodium carbonate peroxyhydrate (CAS #-15630-89-4)—Federal law restricts the use of this substance in food crop production to approved food uses identified on the product label.
(b) As herbicides, weed barriers, as applicable.
(1) Herbicides, soap-based—for use in farmstead maintenance (roadways, ditches, right of ways, building perimeters) and ornamental crops.
(2) Mulches.
(i) Newspaper or other recycled paper, without glossy or colored inks.
(ii) Plastic mulch and covers (petroleum-based other than polyvinyl chloride (PVC)).
(iii) Biodegradable biobased mulch film as defined in § 205.2. Must be produced without organisms or feedstock derived from excluded methods.
(c) As compost feedstocks—Newspapers or other recycled paper, without glossy or colored inks.
(d) As animal repellents—Soaps, ammonium—for use as a large animal repellant only, no contact with soil or edible portion of crop.
(e) As insecticides (including acaricides or mite control).
(1) Ammonium carbonate—for use as bait in insect traps only, no direct contact with crop or soil.
(2) Aqueous potassium silicate (CAS #-1312-76-1)—the silica, used in the manufacture of potassium silicate, must be sourced from naturally occurring sand.
(3) Boric acid—structural pest control, no direct contact with organic food or crops.
(4) Copper sulfate—for use as tadpole shrimp control in aquatic rice production, is limited to one application per field during any 24-month period. Application rates are limited to levels which do not increase baseline soil test values for copper over a timeframe agreed upon by the producer and accredited certifying agent.
(5) Elemental sulfur.
(6) Lime sulfur—including calcium polysulfide.
(7) Oils, horticultural—narrow range oils as dormant, suffocating, and summer oils.
(8) Soaps, insecticidal.
(9) Sticky traps/barriers.
(10) Sucrose octanoate esters (CAS #s—42922-74-7; 58064-47-4)—in accordance with approved labeling.
(f) As insect management. Pheromones.
(g) As rodenticides. Vitamin D
3
.
(h) As slug or snail bait.
(1) Ferric phosphate (CAS # 10045-86-0).
(2) Elemental sulfur.
(i) As plant disease control.
(1) Aqueous potassium silicate (CAS #-1312-76-1)—the silica, used in the manufacture of potassium silicate, must be sourced from naturally occurring sand.
(2) Coppers, fixed—copper hydroxide, copper oxide, copper oxychloride, includes products exempted from EPA tolerance,
Provided,
That, copper-based materials must be used in a manner that minimizes accumulation in the soil and shall not be used as herbicides.
(3) Copper sulfate—Substance must be used in a manner that minimizes accumulation of copper in the soil.
(4) Hydrated lime.
(5) Hydrogen peroxide.
(6) Lime sulfur.
(7) Oils, horticultural, narrow range oils as dormant, suffocating, and summer oils.
(8) Peracetic acid—for use to control fire blight bacteria. Also permitted in hydrogen peroxide formulations as allowed in § 205.601(i) at concentration of no more than 6% as indicated on the pesticide product label.
(9) Potassium bicarbonate.
(10) Elemental sulfur.
(11) Polyoxin D zinc salt.
(j) As plant or soil amendments.
(1) Aquatic plant extracts (other than hydrolyzed)—Extraction process is limited to the use of potassium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide; solvent amount used is limited to that amount necessary for extraction.
(2) Elemental sulfur.
(3) Humic acids—naturally occurring deposits, water and alkali extracts only.
(4) Lignin sulfonate—chelating agent, dust suppressant.
(5) Magnesium oxide (CAS # 1309-48-4)—for use only to control the viscosity of a clay suspension agent for humates.
(6) Magnesium sulfate—allowed with a documented soil deficiency.
(7) Micronutrients—not to be used as a defoliant, herbicide, or desiccant. Those made from nitrates or chlorides are not allowed. Micronutrient deficiency must be documented by soil or tissue testing or other documented and verifiable method as approved by the certifying agent.
(i) Soluble boron products.
(ii) Sulfates, carbonates, oxides, or silicates of zinc, copper, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, and cobalt.
(8) Liquid fish products—can be pH adjusted with sulfuric, citric or phosphoric acid. The amount of acid used shall not exceed the minimum needed to lower the pH to 3.5.
(9) Vitamins, C and E.
(10) Squid byproducts—from food waste processing only. Can be pH adjusted with sulfuric, citric, or phosphoric acid. The amount of acid used shall not exceed the minimum needed to lower the pH to 3.5.
(11) Sulfurous acid (CAS # 7782-99-2) for on-farm generation of substance utilizing 99% purity elemental sulfur per paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(k) As plant growth regulators.
(1) Ethylene gas—for regulation of pineapple flowering.
(2) Fatty alcohols (C6, C8, C10, and/or C12)—for sucker control in organic tobacco production.
(l) As floating agents in postharvest handling. Sodium silicate—for tree fruit and fiber processing.
(m) As synthetic inert ingredients as classified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), for use with nonsynthetic substances or synthetic substances listed in this section and used as an active pesticide ingredient in accordance with any limitations on the use of such substances.
(1) EPA List 4—Inerts of Minimal Concern.
(2) EPA List 3—Inerts of unknown toxicity—for use only in passive pheromone dispensers.
(n) Seed preparations. Hydrogen chloride (CAS # 7647-01-0)—for delinting cotton seed for planting.
(o) Production aids.
(1) Microcrystalline cheesewax (CAS #'s 64742-42-3, 8009-03-08, and 8002-74-2)—for use in log grown mushroom production. Must be made without either ethylene-propylene co-polymer or synthetic colors.
(2) Paper-based crop planting aids as defined in § 205.2. Virgin or recycled paper without glossy paper or colored inks.
(p)-(z) [Reserved]
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 205.601, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 205.601, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024, § 205.601 was amended by revising paragraphs (i) introductory text and (j) introductory text, effective Feb. 21, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 205.601
Synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production.
(i) As crop disease control.
(j) As crop or soil amendments.
§ 205.602
Nonsynthetic substances prohibited for use in organic crop production.
The following nonsynthetic substances may not be used in organic crop production:
(a) Ash from manure burning.
(b) Arsenic.
(c) Calcium chloride, brine process is natural and prohibited for use except as a foliar spray to treat a physiological disorder associated with calcium uptake.
(d) Lead salts.
(e) Potassium chloride—unless derived from a mined source and applied in a manner that minimizes chloride accumulation in the soil.
(f) Rotenone (CAS # 83-79-4).
(g) Sodium fluoaluminate (mined).
(h) Sodium nitrate—unless use is restricted to no more than 20% of the crop's total nitrogen requirement; use in spirulina production is unrestricted until October 21, 2005.
(i) Strychnine.
(j) Tobacco dust (nicotine sulfate).
[68 FR 61992, Oct. 31, 2003, as amended at 83 FR 66572, Dec. 27, 2018]
§ 205.603
Synthetic substances allowed for use in organic livestock production.
In accordance with restrictions specified in this section the following synthetic substances may be used in organic livestock production:
(a) As disinfectants, sanitizer, and medical treatments as applicable.
(1) Alcohols.
(i) Ethanol—disinfectant and sanitizer only, prohibited as a feed additive.
(ii) Isopropanol-disinfectant only.
(2) Aspirin-approved for health care use to reduce inflammation.
(3) Atropine (CAS #-51-55-8)—federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian, in full compliance with the AMDUCA and 21 CFR part 530 of the Food and Drug Administration regulations. Also, for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires:
(i) Use by or on the lawful written order of a licensed veterinarian; and
(ii) A meat withdrawal period of at least 56 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter; and a milk discard period of at least 12 days after administering to dairy animals.
(4) Biologics—Vaccines.
(5) Butorphanol (CAS #-42408-82-2)—federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian, in full compliance with the AMDUCA and 21 CFR part 530 of the Food and Drug Administration regulations. Also, for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires:
(i) Use by or on the lawful written order of a licensed veterinarian; and
(ii) A meat withdrawal period of at least 42 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter; and a milk discard period of at least 8 days after administering to dairy animals.
(6) Activated charcoal (CAS # 7440-44-0)—must be from vegetative sources.
(7) Calcium borogluconate (CAS # 5743-34-0)—for treatment of milk fever only.
(8) Calcium propionate (CAS # 4075-81-4)—for treatment of milk fever only.
(9) Chlorhexidine (CAS # 55-56-1)—for medical procedures conducted under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian. Allowed for use as a teat dip when alternative germicidal agents
and/or physical barriers have lost their effectiveness.
(10) Chlorine materials—disinfecting and sanitizing facilities and equipment. Residual chlorine levels in the water shall not exceed the maximum residual disinfectant limit under the Safe Drinking Water Act.
(i) Calcium hypochlorite.
(ii) Chlorine dioxide.
(iii) Hypochlorous acid—generated from electrolyzed water.
(iv) Sodium hypochlorite
(11) Electrolytes—without antibiotics.
(12) Flunixin (CAS #-38677-85-9)—in accordance with approved labeling; except that for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires a withdrawal period of at least two-times that required by the FDA.
(13) Glucose.
(14) Glycerin—allowed as a livestock teat dip, must be produced through the hydrolysis of fats or oils.
(15) Hydrogen peroxide.
(16) Iodine.
(17) Kaolin pectin—for use as an adsorbent, antidiarrheal, and gut protectant.
(18) Magnesium hydroxide (CAS #-1309-42-8)—federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian, in full compliance with the AMDUCA and 21 CFR part 530 of the Food and Drug Administration regulations. Also, for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires use by or on the lawful written order of a licensed veterinarian.
(19) Magnesium sulfate.
(20) Mineral oil—for treatment of intestinal compaction, prohibited for use as a dust suppressant.
(21) Nutritive supplements—injectable supplements of trace minerals per paragraph (d)(2) of this section, vitamins per paragraph (d)(3), and electrolytes per paragraph (a)(11), with excipients per paragraph (f), in accordance with FDA and restricted to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.
(22) Oxytocin—use in postparturition therapeutic applications.
(23) Parasiticides—prohibited in slaughter stock, allowed in emergency treatment for dairy and breeder stock when organic system plan-approved preventive management does not prevent infestation. In breeder stock, treatment cannot occur during the last third of gestation if the progeny will be sold as organic and must not be used during the lactation period for breeding stock. Allowed for fiber bearing animals when used a minimum of 36 days prior to harvesting of fleece or wool that is to be sold, labeled, or represented as organic.
(i) Fenbendazole (CAS #43210-67-9)—milk or milk products from a treated animal cannot be labeled as provided for in subpart D of this part for: 2 days following treatment of cattle; 36 days following treatment of goats, sheep, and other dairy species.
(ii) Moxidectin (CAS #113507-06-5)—milk or milk products from a treated animal cannot be labeled as provided for in subpart D of this part for: 2 days following treatment of cattle; 36 days following treatment of goats, sheep, and other dairy species.
(24) Peroxyacetic/peracetic acid (CAS #-79-21-0)—for sanitizing facility and processing equipment.
(25) Phosphoric acid—allowed as an equipment cleaner,
Provided,
That, no direct contact with organically managed livestock or land occurs.
(26) Poloxalene (CAS #-9003-11-6)—for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires that poloxalene only be used for the emergency treatment of bloat.
(27) Propylene glycol (CAS #57-55-6)—only for treatment of ketosis in ruminants.
(28) Sodium chlorite, acidified—allowed for use on organic livestock as a teat dip treatment only.
(29) Tolazoline (CAS #59-98-3)—federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian, in full compliance with the AMDUCA and 21 CFR part 530 of the Food and Drug Administration regulations. Also, for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires:
(i) Use by or on the lawful written order of a licensed veterinarian;
(ii) Use only to reverse the effects of sedation and analgesia caused by Xylazine; and,
(iii) A meat withdrawal period of at least 8 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter; and a
milk discard period of at least 4 days after administering to dairy animals.
(30) Xylazine (CAS #7361-61-7)—federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian, in full compliance with the AMDUCA and 21 CFR part 530 of the Food and Drug Administration regulations. Also, for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires:
(i) Use by or on the lawful written order of a licensed veterinarian; and,
(ii) A meat withdrawal period of at least 8 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter; and a milk discard period of at least 4 days after administering to dairy animals.
(b) As topical treatment, external parasiticide or local anesthetic as applicable.
(1) Copper sulfate.
(2) Elemental sulfur—for treatment of livestock and livestock housing.
(3) Formic acid (CAS # 64-18-6)—for use as a pesticide solely within honeybee hives.
(4) Iodine.
(5) Lidocaine—as a local anesthetic. Use requires a withdrawal period of 8 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter and 6 days after administering to dairy animals.
(6) Lime, hydrated—as an external pest control, not permitted to cauterize physical alterations or deodorize animal wastes.
(7) Mineral oil—for topical use and as a lubricant.
(8) Oxalic acid dihydrate—for use as a pesticide solely for apiculture.
(9) Sodium chlorite, acidified—allowed for use on organic livestock as teat dip treatment only.
(10) Sucrose octanoate esters (CAS #s-42922-74-7; 58064-47-4)—in accordance with approved labeling.
(11) Zinc sulfate—for use in hoof and foot treatments only.
(c) As feed supplements—None.
(d) As feed additives.
(1) DL-Methionine, DL-Methionine—hydroxy analog, and DL-Methionine—hydroxy analog calcium (CAS #'s 59-51-8, 583-91-5, 4857-44-7, and 922-50-9)—for use only in organic poultry production at the following pounds of synthetic 100 percent methionine per ton of feed in the diet, maximum rates as averaged per ton of feed over the life of the flock: Laying chickens—2 pounds; broiler chickens—2.5 pounds; turkeys and all other poultry—3 pounds.
(2) Trace minerals, used for enrichment or fortification when FDA approved.
(3) Vitamins, used for enrichment or fortification when FDA approved.
(e) As synthetic inert ingredients as classified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), for use with nonsynthetic substances or synthetic substances listed in this section and used as an active pesticide ingredient in accordance with any limitations on the use of such substances.
(1) EPA List 4—Inerts of Minimal Concern.
(2) [Reserved]
(f) Excipients—only for use in the manufacture of drugs and biologics used to treat organic livestock when the excipient is: (1) Identified by the FDA as Generally Recognized As Safe; (2) Approved by the FDA as a food additive; (3) Included in the FDA review and approval of a New Animal Drug Application or New Drug Application; or (4) Approved by APHIS for use in veterinary biologics.
(g)-(z) [Reserved]
[72 FR 70484, Dec. 12, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 54059, Sept. 18, 2008; 75 FR 51924, Aug. 24, 2010; 77 FR 28745, May 15, 2012; 77 FR 45907, Aug. 2, 2012; 77 FR 57989, Sept. 19, 2012; 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015; 82 FR 31243, July 6, 2017; 83 FR 66572, Dec. 27, 2018; 84 FR 18136, Apr. 30, 2019; 86 FR 33484, June 25, 2021; 87 FR 10938, Feb. 28, 2022]
§ 205.604
Nonsynthetic substances prohibited for use in organic livestock production.
The following nonsynthetic substances may not be used in organic livestock production:
(a) Strychnine.
(b)-(z) [Reserved]
§ 205.605
Nonagricultural (nonorganic) substances allowed as ingredients in or on processed products labeled as “organic” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024.
The following nonagricultural substances may be used as ingredients in or on processed products labeled as “organic” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))”
only in accordance with any restrictions specified in this section.
(a)
Nonsynthetics allowed.
(1) Acids (Citric—produced by microbial fermentation of carbohydrate substances; and Lactic).
(2) Agar-agar.
(3) Animal enzymes—(Rennet—animals derived; Catalase—bovine liver; Animal lipase; Pancreatin; Pepsin; and Trypsin).
(4) Attapulgite—as a processing aid in the handling of plant and animal oils.
(5) Bentonite.
(6) Calcium carbonate.
(7) Calcium chloride.
(8) Calcium sulfate—mined.
(9) Carrageenan.
(10) Diatomaceous earth—food filtering aid only.
(11) Enzymes—must be derived from edible, nontoxic plants, nonpathogenic fungi, or nonpathogenic bacteria.
(12) Flavors—nonsynthetic flavors may be used when organic flavors are not commercially available. All flavors must be derived from organic or nonsynthetic sources only and must not be produced using synthetic solvents and carrier systems or any artificial preservative.
(13) Gellan gum (CAS # 71010-52-1)—high-acyl form only.
(14) Glucono delta-lactone—production by the oxidation of D-glucose with bromine water is prohibited.
(15) Kaolin.
(16) L-Malic acid (CAS # 97-67-6).
(17) Magnesium chloride.
(18) Magnesium sulfate, nonsynthetic sources only.
(19) Microorganisms—any food grade bacteria, fungi, and other microorganism.
(20) Nitrogen—oil-free grades.
(21) Oxygen—oil-free grades.
(22) Perlite—for use only as a filter aid in food processing.
(23) Potassium chloride.
(24) Potassium iodide.
(25) Pullulan—for use only in tablets and capsules for dietary supplements labeled “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).
(26) Sodium bicarbonate.
(27) Sodium carbonate.
(28) Tartaric acid—made from grape wine.
(29) Waxes—nonsynthetic (Wood rosin).
(30) Yeast—When used as food or a fermentation agent in products labeled as “organic,” yeast must be organic if its end use is for human consumption; nonorganic yeast may be used when organic yeast is not commercially available. Growth on petrochemical substrate and sulfite waste liquor is prohibited. For smoked yeast, nonsynthetic smoke flavoring process must be documented.
(b)
Synthetics allowed.
(1) Acidified sodium chlorite—Secondary direct antimicrobial food treatment and indirect food contact surface sanitizing. Acidified with citric acid only.
(2) Activated charcoal (CAS #s 7440-44-0; 64365-11-3)—only from vegetative sources; for use only as a filtering aid.
(3) Alginates.
(4) Ammonium bicarbonate—for use only as a leavening agent.
(5) Ammonium carbonate—for use only as a leavening agent.
(6) Ascorbic acid.
(7) Calcium citrate.
(8) Calcium hydroxide.
(9) Calcium phosphates (monobasic, dibasic, and tribasic).
(10) Carbon dioxide.
(11) Cellulose (CAS #9004-34-6)
—for use in regenerative casings, powdered cellulose as an anti-caking agent (non-chlorine bleached) and filtering aid. Microcrystalline cellulose is prohibited.
(12) Chlorine materials—disinfecting and sanitizing food contact surfaces, equipment and facilities may be used up to maximum labeled rates. Chlorine materials in water used in direct crop or food contact are permitted at levels approved by the FDA or EPA for such purpose, provided the use is followed by a rinse with potable water at or below the maximum residual disinfectant limit for the chlorine material under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Chlorine in water used as an ingredient in organic food handling must not exceed the maximum residual disinfectant limit for the chlorine material under the Safe Drinking Water Act.
(i) Calcium hypochlorite.
(ii) Chlorine dioxide.
(iii) Hypochlorous acid—generated from electrolyzed water.
(iv) Sodium hypochlorite.
(13) Collagen gel—as casing, may be used only when organic collagen gel is not commercially available.
(14) Ethylene—allowed for postharvest ripening of tropical fruit and degreening of citrus.
(15) Ferrous sulfate—for iron enrichment or fortification of foods when required by regulation or recommended (independent organization).
(16) Glycerides (mono and di)—for use only in drum drying of food.
(17) Hydrogen peroxide.
(18) Low-acyl gellan gum.
(19) Magnesium stearate—for use only in agricultural products labeled “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” prohibited in agricultural products labeled “organic”.
(20) Nutrient vitamins and minerals, in accordance with 21 CFR 104.20, Nutritional Quality Guidelines For Foods.
(21) Ozone.
(22) Peracetic acid/Peroxyacetic acid (CAS # 79-21-0)—for use in wash and/or rinse water according to FDA limitations. For use as a sanitizer on food contact surfaces.
(23) Phosphoric acid—cleaning of food-contact surfaces and equipment only.
(24) Potassium carbonate.
(25) Potassium citrate.
(26) Potassium hydroxide—prohibited for use in lye peeling of fruits and vegetables except when used for peeling peaches.
(27) Potassium lactate—for use as an antimicrobial agent and pH regulator only.
(28) Potassium phosphate—for use only in agricultural products labeled “made with organic (specific ingredients or food group(s)),” prohibited in agricultural products labeled “organic”.
(29) Silicon dioxide—Permitted as a defoamer. Allowed for other uses when organic rice hulls are not commercially available.
(30) Sodium acid pyrophosphate (CAS # 7758-16-9)—for use only as a leavening agent.
(31) Sodium citrate.
(32) Sodium hydroxide—prohibited for use in lye peeling of fruits and vegetables.
(33) Sodium lactate—for use as an antimicrobial agent and pH regulator only.
(34) Sodium phosphates—for use only in dairy foods.
(35) Sulfur dioxide—for use only in wine labeled “made with organic grapes,” Provided, That, total sulfite concentration does not exceed 100 ppm.
(36) Tocopherols—derived from vegetable oil when rosemary extracts are not a suitable alternative.
(37) Xanthan gum.
(c)-(z) [Reserved]
[68 FR 61993, Oct. 31, 2003]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 205.605, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 205.605, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024, § 205.605 was amended by redesignating paragraphs (b)(36) and (37) as paragraphs (b)(37) and (38), respectively and adding new paragraph (b)(36), effective Feb. 21, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 205.605
Nonagricultural (nonorganic) substances allowed as ingredients in or on processed products labeled as “organic” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
(b) * * *
(36) Taurine—for use only in pet food.
§ 205.606
Nonorganically produced agricultural products allowed as ingredients in or on processed products labeled as “organic.”
Only the following nonorganically produced agricultural products may be used as ingredients in or on processed products labeled as “organic,” only in accordance with any restrictions specified in this section, and only when the product is not commercially available in organic form.
(a) Carnauba wax
(b) Casings, from processed intestines.
(c) Celery powder.
(d) Colors derived from agricultural products—Must not be produced using synthetic solvents and carrier systems or any artificial preservative.
(1) Beet juice extract color—derived from
Beta vulgaris
L., except must not be produced from sugarbeets.
(2) Beta-carotene extract color—derived from carrots (
Daucus carota
L.) or algae (
Dunaliella salina
).
(3) Black/purple carrot juice color—derived from
Daucus carota
L.
(4) Chokeberry, aronia juice color—derived from
Aronia arbutifolia
(L.) Pers. or
Aronia melanocarpa
(Michx.) Elliott.
(5) Elderberry juice color—derived from
Sambucus nigra
L.
(6) Grape skin extract color—derived from
Vitis vinifera
L.
(7) Purple sweet potato juice color—derived from
Ipomoea batatas
L. or
Solanum tuberosum
L.
(8) Red cabbage extract color—derived from
Brassica oleracea
L.
(9) Red radish extract color—derived from
Raphanus sativus
L.
(10) Saffron extract color—derived from
Crocus sativus
L.
(e) Cornstarch (native).
(f) Fish oil (Fatty acid CAS #'s: 10417-94-4, and 25167-62-8)—stabilized with organic ingredients or only with ingredients on the National List, §§ 205.605 and 205.606.
(g) Fructooligosaccharides (CAS # 308066-66-2).
(h) Gelatin (CAS # 9000-70-8).
(i) Glycerin (CAS # 56-81-5)—produced from agricultural source materials and processed using biological or mechanical/physical methods as described under § 205.270(a).
(j) Gums—water extracted only (Arabic; Guar; Locust bean; and Carob bean).
(k) Inulin—oligofructose enriched (CAS # 9005-80-5).
(l) Lecithin—de-oiled.
(m) Orange pulp, dried.
(n) Orange shellac—unbleached (CAS # 9000-59-3).
(o) Pectin (non-amidated forms only).
(p) Potassium acid tartrate.
(q) Seaweed, Pacific kombu.
(r) Tamarind seed gum.
(s) Tragacanth gum (CAS # 9000-65-1).
(t) Wakame seaweed (
Undaria pinnatifida
).
(u)—(w) [Reserved]
[72 FR 35140, June 27, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 77524, Dec. 13, 2010; 77 FR 8092, Feb. 14, 2012; 77 FR 33299, June 6, 2012; 77 FR 44429, July 30, 2012; 78 FR 31821, May 28, 2013; 79 FR 58663, Sept. 30, 2014; 80 FR 77234, Dec. 12, 2015; 82 FR 31244, July 6, 2017; 83 FR 66571, Dec. 27, 2018; 84 18136, Apr. 30, 2019; 85 FR 70435, Nov. 5, 2020; 87 FR 10938, Feb. 28, 2022; 88 FR 33816, May 25, 2023]
§ 205.607
Amending the National List.
(a) Any person may petition the National Organic Standards Board for the purpose of having a substance evaluated by the Board for recommendation to the Secretary for inclusion on or deletion from the National List in accordance with the Act.
(b) A person petitioning for amendment of the National List should request a copy of the petition procedures from the USDA at the address in § 205.607(c).
(c) A petition to amend the National List must be submitted to: Program Manager, USDA-AMS-NOP, 1400 Independence Ave. SW., Room 2648 So. Bldg., Ag Stop 0268, Washington, DC 20250-0268.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 61993, Oct. 31, 2003; 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015]
§§ 205.608-205.619
[Reserved]

# State Organic Programs
§ 205.620
Requirements of State organic programs.
(a) A State may establish a State organic program for production and handling operations within the State which produce and handle organic agricultural products.
(b) A State organic program must meet the requirements for organic programs specified in the Act.
(c) A State organic program may contain more restrictive requirements because of environmental conditions or the necessity of specific production or handling practices particular to the State or region of the United States.
(d) A State organic program must assume enforcement obligations in the State for the requirements of this part and any more restrictive requirements approved by the Secretary.
(e) A State organic program and any amendments to such program must be approved by the Secretary prior to being implemented by the State.
§ 205.621
Submission and determination of proposed State organic programs and amendments to approved State organic programs.
(a) A State organic program's governing State official must submit to the Secretary a proposed State organic program and any proposed amendments to such approved program.
(1) Such submission must contain supporting materials that include statutory authorities, program description, documentation of the environmental conditions or specific production and handling practices particular to the State which necessitate more restrictive requirements than the requirements of this part, and other information as may be required by the Secretary.
(2) Submission of a request for amendment of an approved State organic program must contain supporting materials that include an explanation and documentation of the environmental conditions or specific production and handling practices particular to the State or region, which necessitates the proposed amendment. Supporting material also must explain how the proposed amendment furthers and is consistent with the purposes of the Act and the regulations of this part.
(b) Within 6 months of receipt of submission, the Secretary will: Notify the State organic program's governing State official of approval or disapproval of the proposed program or amendment of an approved program and, if disapproved, the reasons for the disapproval.
(c) After receipt of a notice of disapproval, the State organic program's governing State official may submit a revised State organic program or amendment of such a program at any time.
§ 205.622
Review of approved State organic programs.
The Secretary will review a State organic program not less than once during each 5-year period following the date of the initial program approval. The Secretary will notify the State organic program's governing State official of approval or disapproval of the program within 6 months after initiation of the review.
§§ 205.623-205.639
[Reserved]

# Fees
§ 205.640
Fees and other charges for accreditation.
Fees and other charges equal as nearly as may be to the cost of the accreditation services rendered under the regulations, including initial accreditation, review of annual reports, and renewal of accreditation, shall be assessed and collected from applicants for initial accreditation and accredited certifying agents submitting annual reports or seeking renewal of accreditation in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)
Fees-for-service.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, fees-for-service shall be based on the time required to render the service provided calculated to the nearest 15-minute period, including the review of applications and accompanying documents and information, evaluator travel, the conduct of on-site evaluations, review of annual reports and updated documents and information, and the time required to prepare reports and any other documents in connection with the performance of service. The hourly rate shall be the same as that charged by the Agricultural Marketing Service, through its Quality Systems Certification Program, to certification bodies requesting conformity assessment to the International Organization for Standardization “General Requirements for Bodies Operating Product Certification Systems” (ISO Guide 65).
(2) Applicants for initial accreditation and accredited certifying agents submitting annual reports or seeking renewal of accreditation during the first 18 months following the effective date of subpart F of this part shall receive service without incurring an hourly charge for service.
(3) Applicants for initial accreditation and renewal of accreditation must pay at the time of application, effective 18 months following February 20,
2001, a nonrefundable fee of $500.00 which shall be applied to the applicant's fees-for-service account.
(b) Travel charges. When service is requested at a place so distant from the evaluator's headquarters that a total of one-half hour or more is required for the evaluator(s) to travel to such place and back to the headquarters or at a place of prior assignment on circuitous routing requiring a total of one-half hour or more to travel to the next place of assignment on the circuitous routing, the charge for such service shall include a mileage charge administratively determined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and travel tolls, if applicable, or such travel prorated among all the applicants and certifying agents furnished the service involved on an equitable basis or, when the travel is made by public transportation (including hired vehicles), a fee equal to the actual cost thereof. Travel charges shall become effective for all applicants for initial accreditation and accredited certifying agents on February 20, 2001. The applicant or certifying agent will not be charged a new mileage rate without notification before the service is rendered.
(c)
Per diem charges.
When service is requested at a place away from the evaluator's headquarters, the fee for such service shall include a per diem charge if the employee(s) performing the service is paid per diem in accordance with existing travel regulations. Per diem charges to applicants and certifying agents will cover the same period of time for which the evaluator(s) receives per diem reimbursement. The per diem rate will be administratively determined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Per diem charges shall become effective for all applicants for initial accreditation and accredited certifying agents on February 20, 2001. The applicant or certifying agent will not be charged a new per diem rate without notification before the service is rendered.
(d)
Other costs.
When costs, other than costs specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, are associated with providing the services, the applicant or certifying agent will be charged for these costs. Such costs include but are not limited to equipment rental, photocopying, delivery, facsimile, telephone, or translation charges incurred in association with accreditation services. The amount of the costs charged will be determined administratively by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Such costs shall become effective for all applicants for initial accreditation and accredited certifying agents on February 20, 2001.
§ 205.641
Payment of fees and other charges.
(a) Applicants for initial accreditation and renewal of accreditation must remit the nonrefundable fee, pursuant to § 205.640(a)(3), along with their application. Remittance must be made payable to the USDA, AMS Livestock Program and mailed to: USDA, AMS Livestock, Poultry and Seed Program, QAD, P.O. Box 790304 St. Louis, MO 63179-0304 or such other address as required by the Program Manager.
(b) Payments for fees and other charges not covered under paragraph (a) of this section must be:
(1) Received by the due date shown on the bill for collection;
(2) Made payable to the Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA; and
(3) Mailed to the address provided on the bill for collection.
(c) The Administrator shall assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts not paid by the due date shown on a bill for collection and collect delinquent debts or refer such debts to the Department of Justice for litigation.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015]
§ 205.642
Fees and other charges for certification.
Fees charged by a certifying agent must be reasonable, and a certifying agent shall charge applicants for certification and certified production and handling operations only those fees and charges that it has filed with the Administrator. The certifying agent shall provide each applicant with an estimate of the total cost of certification and an estimate of the annual cost of updating the certification. The certifying agent may require applicants for
certification to pay at the time of application a nonrefundable fee which shall be applied to the applicant's fees-for-service account. The certifying agent may set the nonrefundable portion of certification fees; however, the nonrefundable portion of certification fees must be explained in the fee schedule submitted to the Administrator. The fee schedule must explain what fee amounts are nonrefundable and at what stage during the certification process fees become nonrefundable. The certifying agent shall provide all persons inquiring about the application process with a copy of its fee schedule.
§§ 205.643-205.649
[Reserved]

# Compliance
§ 205.660
General.
(a) The National Organic Program's Program Manager, on behalf of the Secretary, may inspect and review certified production and handling operations and accredited certifying agents for compliance with the Act or regulations in this part.
(b) The Program Manager may initiate suspension or revocation proceedings against a certified operation:
(1) When the Program Manager has reason to believe that a certified operation has violated or is not in compliance with the Act or regulations in this part; or
(2) When a certifying agent or a State organic program's governing State official fails to take appropriate action to enforce the Act or regulations in this part.
(c) The Program Manager may initiate enforcement action against any person who sells, labels, or provides other market information concerning an agricultural product if such label or information implies that such product is produced or handled using organic methods, if the product was produced or handled in violation of the Organic Foods Production Act or the regulations in this part.
(d) The Program Manager may initiate suspension or revocation of a certifying agent's accreditation if the certifying agent fails to meet, conduct, or maintain accreditation requirements pursuant to the Act or this part.
(e) Each notification of noncompliance, rejection of mediation, noncompliance resolution, proposed suspension or revocation, and suspension or revocation issued pursuant to §§ 205.662, 205.663, and 205.665 and each response to such notification must be sent to the recipient's place of business via a delivery service which provides dated return receipts.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3625, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.661
Investigation.
(a) A certifying agent may investigate complaints of noncompliance with the Act or regulations of this part concerning production and handling operations certified as organic by the certifying agent. A certifying agent must notify the Program Manager of all compliance proceedings and actions taken pursuant to this part.
(b) A State organic program's governing State official may investigate complaints of noncompliance with the Act or regulations in this part concerning organic production or handling operations operating in the State.
§ 205.662
Noncompliance procedure for certified operations.
(a)
Notification.
When an inspection, review, or investigation of a certified operation by a certifying agent or a State organic program's governing State official reveals any noncompliance with the Act or regulations in this part, a written notification of noncompliance shall be sent to the certified operation. Such notification shall provide:
(1) A description of each noncompliance;
(2) The facts upon which the notification of noncompliance is based; and
(3) The date by which the certified operation must rebut or correct each noncompliance and submit supporting documentation of each such correction when correction is possible.
(b)
Resolution.
When a certified operation demonstrates that each noncompliance has been resolved, the certifying agent or the State organic program's governing State official, as applicable, shall send the certified operation a written notification of noncompliance resolution.
(c)
Proposed suspension or revocation.
When rebuttal is unsuccessful or correction of the noncompliance is not completed within the prescribed time period, the certifying agent or State organic program's governing State official shall send the certified operation a written notification of proposed suspension or revocation of certification of the entire operation or a portion of the operation, as applicable to the noncompliance. When correction of a noncompliance is not possible, the notification of noncompliance and the proposed suspension or revocation of certification may be combined in one notification. The notification of proposed suspension or revocation of certification shall state:
(1) The reasons for the proposed suspension or revocation;
(2) The proposed effective date of such suspension or revocation;
(3) The impact of a suspension or revocation on future eligibility for certification; and
(4) The right to request mediation pursuant to § 205.663 or to file an appeal pursuant to § 205.681.
(d)
Willful violations.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a certifying agent or State organic program's governing State official has reason to believe that a certified operation has willfully violated the Act or regulations in this part, the certifying agent or State organic program's governing State official shall send the certified operation a notification of proposed suspension or revocation of certification of the entire operation or a portion of the operation, as applicable to the noncompliance.
(e)
Suspension or revocation.
(1) If the certified operation fails to correct the noncompliance, to resolve the issue through rebuttal or mediation, or to file an appeal of the proposed suspension or revocation of certification, the certifying agent or State organic program's governing State official shall send the certified operation a written notification of suspension or revocation.
(2) A certifying agent or State organic program's governing State official must not send a notification of suspension or revocation to a certified operation that has requested mediation pursuant to § 205.663 or filed an appeal pursuant to § 205.681, while final resolution of either is pending.
(3) Within 3 business days of issuing a notification of suspension or revocation, or the effective date of an operation's surrender, the certifying agent must update the operation's status in the Organic Integrity Database.
(f)
Eligibility.
(1) A certified operation or a person responsibly connected with an operation whose certification has been suspended may at any time, unless otherwise stated in the notification of suspension, submit a request to the Secretary for reinstatement of its certification, or submit a request for eligibility to be certified. The request must be accompanied by evidence demonstrating correction of each noncompliance and corrective actions taken to comply with and remain in compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
(2) A certified operation or a person responsibly connected with an operation whose certification has been revoked will be ineligible to receive certification for a period of 5 years following the date of such revocation,
Except,
That, the Secretary may, when in the best interest of the certification program, reduce or eliminate the period of ineligibility.
(g)
Violations of Act.
In addition to suspension or revocation, any certified operation that:
(1) Knowingly sells or labels a product as organic, except in accordance with the Act, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than the amount specified in 7 CFR 3.91(b)(1)(xxxvi) per violation.
(2) Makes a false statement under the Act to the Secretary, a State organic program's governing State official, or a certifying agent shall be subject to the provisions of section 1001 of title 18, United States Code.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 17560, Apr. 7, 2010; 79 FR 6430, Feb. 5, 2015; 88 FR 3626, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.663
Mediation.
(a) A certifying agent must submit with its administrative policies and procedures: decision criteria for acceptance of mediation, and a process for identifying personnel conducting
mediation and setting up mediation sessions per § 205.504(b)(8).
(b) A certified operation or applicant for certification may request mediation to resolve a denial of certification or proposed suspension or proposed revocation of certification issued by a certifying agent or State organic program.
(1) A certified operation or applicant for certification must submit any request for mediation in writing to the applicable certifying agent or State organic program within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notice of proposed suspension or proposed revocation of certification or denial of certification.
(2) A certifying agent or State organic program may accept or reject a request for mediation based on the decision criteria required in paragraph (a) of this section. Certifying agents must document these criteria and how the certifying agent applied the criteria to the request.
(3) If a certifying agent rejects a mediation request, it must provide this rejection, and the justification for the rejection, in writing to the applicant for certification or certified operation. The rejection must include the right to request an appeal, pursuant to § 205.681, within 30 calendar days of the date of receipt of the written notification of rejection of the request for mediation.
(4) When an operation appeals a rejection of mediation, the adverse action which is contested must not be finalized during the appeal proceeding.
(c) Both parties must agree on the person conducting the mediation.
(d) If a State organic program is in effect, the parties must follow the mediation procedures established in the State organic program and approved by the Secretary.
(e) The parties to the mediation have a maximum of 30 calendar days from the start of mediation to reach an agreement. Successful mediation results in a settlement agreement agreed to in writing by both the certifying agent and the certified operation. If mediation is unsuccessful, the applicant for certification or certified operation has 30 calendar days from receipt of a written notice of termination of mediation to appeal the denial of certification or proposed suspension or revocation pursuant to § 205.681.
(f) Any settlement agreement reached through mediation must comply with the Act and the regulations in this part. The Program Manager may review any mediated settlement agreement for conformity to the Act and the regulations in this part and may reject any agreement or provision not in conformance with the Act or the regulations in this part.
(g) The Program Manager may propose mediation and enter into a settlement agreement at any time to resolve any adverse action notice.
[88 FR 3626, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.664
[Reserved]
§ 205.665
Noncompliance procedure for certifying agents.
(a)
Notification.
(1) A written notification of noncompliance will be sent to the certifying agent when:
(i) An inspection, review, or investigation of an accredited certifying agent by the Program Manager reveals any noncompliance with the Act or regulations in this part; or
(ii) The Program Manager determines that the certification activities of the certifying agent, or any person performing certification activities on behalf of the certifying agent, are not compliant with the Act or the regulations in this part; or
(iii) The Program Manager determines that the certification activities at a certification office, and/in specific countries, are not compliant with the Act or the regulations in this part.
(2) Such notification must provide:
(i) A description of each noncompliance;
(ii) The facts upon which the notification of noncompliance is based; and
(iii) The date by which the certifying agent must rebut or correct each noncompliance and submit supporting documentation of each correction when correction is possible.
(b)
Resolution.
When the certifying agent demonstrates that each noncompliance has been resolved, the Program Manager shall send the certifying agent a written notification of noncompliance resolution.
(c)
Proposed suspension or revocation.
When rebuttal is unsuccessful or correction of the noncompliance is not completed within the prescribed time period, the Program Manager shall send a written notification of proposed suspension or revocation of accreditation to the certifying agent. The notification of proposed suspension or revocation shall state whether the certifying agent's accreditation or specified areas of accreditation are to be suspended or revoked. When correction of a noncompliance is not possible, the notification of noncompliance and the proposed suspension or revocation may be combined in one notification. The notification of proposed suspension or revocation of accreditation shall state:
(1) The reasons for the proposed suspension or revocation;
(2) The proposed effective date of the suspension or revocation;
(3) The impact of a suspension or revocation on future eligibility for accreditation; and
(4) The right to file an appeal pursuant to § 205.681.
(d)
Willful violations.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if the Program Manager has reason to believe that a certifying agent has willfully violated the Act or regulations in this part, the Program Manager shall send a written notification of proposed suspension or revocation of accreditation to the certifying agent.
(e)
Suspension or revocation.
When the accredited certifying agent fails to file an appeal of the proposed suspension or revocation of accreditation, the Program Manager shall send a written notice of suspension or revocation of accreditation to the certifying agent.
(f)
Cessation of certification activities.
A certifying agent whose accreditation is suspended or revoked must:
(1) Cease all certification activities in each area of accreditation and in each State for which its accreditation is suspended or revoked.
(2) Transfer to the Secretary and make available to any applicable State organic program's governing State official all records concerning its certification activities that were suspended or revoked.
(g)
Eligibility.
(1) A certifying agent whose accreditation is suspended by the Secretary under this section may at any time, unless otherwise stated in the notification of suspension, submit a request to the Secretary for reinstatement of its accreditation. The request must be accompanied by evidence demonstrating correction of each noncompliance and corrective actions taken to comply with and remain in compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.
(2) A certifying agent whose accreditation is revoked by the Secretary shall be ineligible to be accredited as a certifying agent under the Act and the regulations in this part for a period of not less than 3 years following the date of such revocation.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 3626, Jan. 19, 2023]
§§ 205.666-205.667
[Reserved]
§ 205.668
Noncompliance procedures under State organic programs.
(a) A State organic program's governing State official must promptly notify the Secretary of commencement of any noncompliance proceeding against a certified operation and forward to the Secretary a copy of each notice issued.
(b) A noncompliance proceeding, brought by a State organic program's governing State official against a certified operation, shall be appealable pursuant to the appeal procedures of the State organic program. There shall be no subsequent rights of appeal to the Secretary. Final decisions of a State may be appealed to the United States District Court for the district in which such certified operation is located.
(c) A State organic program's governing State official may review and investigate complaints of noncompliance with the Act or regulations concerning accreditation of certifying agents operating in the State. When such review or investigation reveals any noncompliance, the State organic program's governing State official shall send a written report of noncompliance to the Program Manager. The report shall provide a description of each noncompliance and the facts upon which the noncompliance is based.
§ 205.669
[Reserved]

# Inspection and Testing, Reporting, and Exclusion from Sale
§ 205.670
Inspection and testing of agricultural products to be sold or labeled as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”
(a) All agricultural products that are to be sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must be made accessible by certified organic production or handling operations for examination by the Administrator, the applicable State organic program's governing State official, or the certifying agent.
(b) The Administrator, applicable State organic program's governing State official, or the certifying agent may require preharvest or postharvest testing of any agricultural input used or agricultural product to be sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” when there is reason to believe that the agricultural input or product has come into contact with a prohibited substance or has been produced using excluded methods. Samples may include the collection and testing of soil; water; waste; seeds; plant tissue; and plant, animal, and processed products samples. Such tests must be conducted by the applicable State organic program's governing State official or the certifying agent at the official's or certifying agent's own expense.
(c) A certifying agent must conduct periodic residue testing of agricultural products to be sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).” Samples may include the collection and testing of soil; water; waste; seeds; plant tissue; and plant, animal, and processed products samples. Such tests must be conducted by the certifying agent at the certifying agent's own expense.
(d) A certifying agent must, on an annual basis, sample and test from a minimum of five percent of the operations it certifies, rounded to the nearest whole number. A certifying agent that certifies fewer than thirty operations on an annual basis must sample and test from at least one operation annually. Tests conducted under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section will apply to the minimum percentage of operations.
(e) Sample collection pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section must be performed by an inspector representing the Administrator, applicable State organic program's governing State official, or certifying agent. Sample integrity must be maintained throughout the chain of custody, and residue testing must be performed in an accredited laboratory. Chemical analysis must be made in accordance with the methods described in the most current edition of the
Official Methods of Analysis of the AOAC International
or other current applicable validated methodology for determining the presence of contaminants in agricultural products.
(f) Results of all analyses and tests performed under this section will be available for public access, unless the testing is part of an ongoing compliance investigation.
(g) If test results indicate a specific agricultural product contains pesticide residues or environmental contaminants that exceed the Food and Drug Administration's or the Environmental Protection Agency's regulatory tolerances, the certifying agent must promptly report such data to the Federal health agency whose regulatory tolerance or action level has been exceeded. Test results that exceed federal regulatory tolerances must also be reported to the appropriate State health agency or foreign equivalent.
[77 FR 67251, Nov. 9, 2012]
§ 205.671
Exclusion from organic sale.
When residue testing detects prohibited substances at levels that are greater than 5 percent of the Environmental Protection Agency's tolerance for the specific residue detected or unavoidable residual environmental contamination, the agricultural product must not be sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced. The
Administrator, the applicable State organic program's governing State official, or the certifying agent may conduct an investigation of the certified operation to determine the cause of the prohibited substance.
§ 205.672
Emergency pest or disease treatment.
When a prohibited substance is applied to a certified operation due to a Federal or State emergency pest or disease treatment program and the certified operation otherwise meets the requirements of this part, the certification status of the operation shall not be affected as a result of the application of the prohibited substance:
Provided,
That:
(a) Any harvested crop or plant part to be harvested that has contact with a prohibited substance applied as the result of a Federal or State emergency pest or disease treatment program cannot be sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced; and
(b) Any livestock that are treated with a prohibited substance applied as the result of a Federal or State emergency pest or disease treatment program or product derived from such treated livestock cannot be sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced:
Except,
That:
(1) Milk or milk products may be sold, labeled, or represented as organically produced beginning 12 months following the last date that the dairy animal was treated with the prohibited substance; and
(2) The offspring of gestating mammalian breeder stock treated with a prohibited substance may be considered organic:
Provided,
That, the breeder stock was not in the last third of gestation on the date that the breeder stock was treated with the prohibited substance.
§§ 205.673-205.679
[Reserved]

# Adverse Action Appeal Process
§ 205.680
General.
(a) Persons subject to the Act who believe they are adversely affected by an adverse action of the National Organic Program's Program Manager may appeal such decision to the Administrator.
(b) Persons subject to the Act who believe they are adversely affected by an adverse action of a State organic program may appeal such decision to the State organic program's governing State official, who will initiate handling of the appeal pursuant to appeal procedures approved by the Secretary.
(c) Persons subject to the Act who believe they are adversely affected by an adverse action of a certifying agent may appeal such decision to the Administrator,
Except,
that, when the person is subject to an approved State organic program, the appeal must be made to the State organic program.
(d) Persons subject to the Act who believe they are adversely affected by an adverse action of a certifying agent or a State organic program may request mediation as provided in § 205.663.
(e) All appeals must comply with the procedural requirements in § 205.681(c) and (d).
(f) All written communications between parties involved in appeal proceedings must be sent to the recipient's place of business by a delivery service which provides dated return receipts.
(g) All appeals must be reviewed, heard, and decided by persons not involved with the adverse action being appealed.
[88 FR 3626, Jan. 19, 2023]
§ 205.681
Appeals.
(a)
Adverse actions by certifying agents.
An applicant for certification may appeal a certifying agent's notice of denial of certification, and a certified operation may appeal a certifying agent's notification of proposed suspension or proposed revocation of certification to the Administrator,
Except,
that, when the applicant or certified operation is subject to an approved State organic program, the appeal must be made to the State organic program which will carry out the appeal pursuant to the State organic program's appeal procedures approved by the Secretary.
(1) If the Administrator or State organic program sustains a certification applicant's or certified operation's appeal of a certifying agent's decision, the applicant will be issued organic certification, or a certified operation
will continue its certification, as applicable to the operation. The act of sustaining the appeal shall not be an adverse action subject to appeal by the affected certifying agent.
(2) If the Administrator or State organic program denies an appeal, a formal administrative proceeding will be initiated to deny, suspend, or revoke the certification unless the parties resolve the issues through settlement, or the appellant waives or does not timely request a hearing. Such proceeding must be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Uniform Rules of Practice, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H, or the State organic program's rules of procedure.
(b)
Adverse actions by the NOP Program Manager.
A person affected by an adverse action, as defined by § 205.2, issued by the NOP Program Manager, may appeal to the Administrator.
(1) If the Administrator sustains an appeal, an applicant will be issued accreditation, a certifying agent will continue its accreditation, or an operation will continue its certification, a civil penalty will be withdrawn, and a cease and desist notice will be withdrawn, as applicable to the operation.
(2) If the Administrator denies an appeal, a formal administrative proceeding will be initiated to deny, suspend, or revoke the accreditation or certification and/or levy civil penalties unless the parties resolve the issues through settlement, the appellant waives a hearing, or the appellant does not timely request a hearing. Such proceeding must be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Uniform Rules of Practice, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
(c)
Filing period.
An appeal must be filed in writing within the time period provided in the letter of notification or within 30 days from receipt of the notification, whichever occurs later. The appeal will be considered “filed” on the date received by the Administrator or by the State organic program. An adverse action will become final and nonappealable unless an appeal is timely filed.
(d)
Where and what to file.
(1) Appeals to the Administrator and Requests for Hearing must be filed in writing and addressed to: 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 2642, Stop 0268, Washington, DC 20250, or electronic transmission,
NOPAppeals@usda.gov.
(2) Appeals to the State organic program must be filed in writing to the address and person identified in the letter of notification.
(3) All appeals must include a copy of the adverse action and a statement of the appellant's reasons for believing that the action was not proper or made in accordance with applicable program regulations.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53303, Sept. 11, 2006; 80 FR 6430, Feb. 4, 2015; 88 FR 3627, Jan. 19, 2023]
§§ 205.682-205.689
[Reserved]

# Miscellaneous
§ 205.690
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements in this part by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB number 0581-0191.
[65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 7195, Feb. 17, 2010]
§ 205.691
Severability.
If any provision of any subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of any subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
[88 FR 75446, Nov. 6, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]
§§ 205.692-205.699
[Reserved]
PARTS 206-209 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle A
54.1—54.31 (Subpart A) Heading revised
7445
54.17 (i) removed
62937
54.1001—54.1034 (Subpart C) Heading revised
7445
56.1 Amended
62937
56.46 (a) and (b)(1)(i) through (iii) revised; (d) removed
62937
57.1—57.970 (Subpart A) Heading revised
7445
57.1000 Undesignated center heading revised
7445
57.1000 (Subpart B) Heading revised
7445
58 Heading revised
7445
58.1—58.64 (Subpart A) Heading revised
7445
61.1—61.42 (Subpart A) Heading revised
7445
61.5 Heading revised
7445
62 Revised
62937
66 Policy statement
40867
70.1 Amended
62941
70.4 (c) removed
62941
70.71 Revised
62941
75 Heading revised
7445
75.5 Heading revised
7445
90 Removed
62942
91.1 Revised
62942
91.2 Amended
62942
91.4 (c) revised
62942
91.5 (a)(6) removed; (a)(8) revised
62942
97.1 Revised
430
97.2 Amended
430
97.5 (c) revised
430
97.6 (c) and (d)(3) revised; (d)(4) added
430
97.7 (b) introductory text amended; (c)(5) and (d) revised
430
97.9 (b) and (c) revised
431
97.12 (a) revised
431
97.14 (d) revised
431
97.19 Introductory text and (c) amended
431
97.20 (a) revised
431
97.23 (c) revised; (d) removed
431
97.101 Revised
431
97.103 (a) revised
432
97.104 Revised
432
97.141 Revised
432
97.142 Revised
432
97.175 Revised
432
97.177 Revised
432
97.178 Revised
432
97.403 (d) revised
432
97.500 Revised
432
97.600 Heading revised
433
97.800 Revised
433
110.8 Heading revised
7445
201 Heading revised; undesignated center heading removed
40578
201.2 (a), (b), (h) through (j), (l)(1), (w), (x), (z), and (mm) amended; (p) and (q) revised; (nn) and (oo) added
40578
201.3 Revised
40579
201.4 (a) and (b) amended
40579
201.7 Amended
40579
201.8 Amended
40579
201.10 (a) amended
40579
201.12a Revised
40579
201.16 (a) and (b) amended
40579
201.17 Amended
40579
201.18 Revised
40579
201.20 Revised
40579
201.21 Revised
40579
201.23 Revised
40580
201.24 Revised
40580
201.25 Amended
40580
201.26a Added
40580
201.27 Revised
40580
201.28 Revised
40580
201.29 Revised
40580
201.30c Added
40580
201.31 Heading and introductory text revised
40580
201.31a (b) revised
40580
201.33 (a) and (b) amended
40580
201.36b (a) amended
40580
201.37 Amended
40580
201.38 Removed
40580
201.39 (c) amended
40580
201.46 (b) revised; (d)(2)(iii) Table 1 amended
40580
201.47a (b)(6) and (c) through (f) amended
40581
201.48 Introductory text amended; (a), (f), (g)(1), and (3) revised
40581
201.51 (a)(1), (b)(2)(iv), (v), (4) amended
40581
201.51a (a) and (b)(2)(ii) table revised
40581
201.56 (d) amended
40582
201.58 (a)(1) and (b)(13) revised; (c)(3) Table 2 amended
40582
201.58 (c)(3) Table 2 amended
65190
201.59 Amended
40583
201.60 (a)(1), (2), and (b)(2) amended
40583
201.61 Table heading revised
40583
201.64 Revised
40583
201.68 Introductory text and (b) revised
40583
201.70 (a) revised
40583
201.74 (a) through (c) amended
40583
201.75 (b)(1) and (c) amended
40583
201.76 Table 5 amended
40583
201.78 (e) revised
40584
202 Heading revised
40584
202.40—202.44 (Subpart C) Heading revised
40584
205 Authority citation revised
70435
205 Policy statement
27105
205 Notification
57937
205.606 (t) through (w) redesignated as (u) through (x); new (t) added
70435
2021
7 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
205 Authority citation revised
33484
205 Policy statement
41699
205.603 (b)(8) through (11) redesignated as (b)(9) through (12); new (b)(8) added
33484
205.605 (a) and (b) amended
33484
2022
7 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
180 Added; eff. 1-6-23
74955
205.2 Amended
19772, 68027
205.236 Revised
19772
205.237 (a) revised
19773
205.239 (a)(3) revised
19773
205.601 (j)(9) revised
10938
205.601 (a)(2)(iv) and (k) revised; (a)(2)(v) added
16375
205.601 Introductory text and (o) revised
68028
205.603 (b)(9) removed; (b)(10) through (12) redesignated as (b)(9) through (11)
10938
205.605 (b) amended
10938
205.605 (a) amended
16375
205.605 (a) and (b) amended
68028
205.606 (d) through (t) revised; (u) through (w) removed
10938
2023
7 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
66.6 Revised
83311
205 Policy statement
22893
205.2 Amended
3620
205.2 Amended; eff. 1-2-24
75444
205.2 Regulation at 88 FR 75444 eff. date delayed to 1-12-24
86259
205.2 Correction: Amended; eff. 1-12-24
89539
205.100 (a) and (c) introductory text revised
3621
205.101 Revised
3621
205.103 (b)(2) revised; (b)(3) and (4) redesignated as (b)(4) and (5); new (b)(3) added
3621
205.201 (a) introductory text amended; (a)(3) revised; (c) added
3622
205.238 Revised; eff. 1-2-24
75445
205.238 Regulation at 88 FR 75445 eff. date delayed to 1-12-24
86259
205.239 Revised; eff. 1-2-24
75446
205.239 Regulation at 88 FR 75446 eff. date delayed to 1-12-24
86259
205.239 Correction: (c)(4) amended; eff. 1-12-24
89539
205.241 Added; eff. 1-2-24
75447
205.241 Regulation at 88 FR 75447 eff. date delayed to 1-12-24
86259
205.241 Correction: (a), (b)(4)(i), and (d)(8) amended; eff. 1-12-24
89539
205.242 Added; eff. 1-2-24
75448
205.242 Regulation at 88 FR 75448 eff. date delayed to 1-12-24
86259
205.273 Added
3622
205.300 (c) revised
3622
205.301 (f)(2) and (3) revised
3622
205.302 (a)(1) through (3) revised
3622
205.307 Revised
3622
205.310 Heading, (a), and (b) revised
3623
205.400 (b) amended; (g) added
3623
205.401 (a) amended
3623
205.403 (a)(2) redesignated as (a)(3); new (a)(2), (d)(4), and (5) added; (b) through (e) redesignated as (c) through (f); new (b) added; new (d)(2) amended
3623
205.404 (b) revised; (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
3623
205.405 (c)(3) removed
3624
205.406 (a) and (b) revised
3624
205.500 (c) removed
3624
205.501 (a)(4), (5), (6) (10), (13), and (15) revised; (a)(21) redesignated as (a)(23); new (a)(21) and (22) added
3624
205.504 Introductory text and (b)(4) revised; (b)(7) and (8) added
3625
205.511 Added
3625
205.606 Correction: (x) removed
33816
205.660 (c) and (d) redesignated as new (d) and (e); new (c) added
3626
205.661 Heading revised
3626
205.662 (e)(3) added; (f)(1) amended; (g)(1) revised
3626
205.663 Revised
3626
205.665 (a) revised
3626
205.680 (a) introductory text, (2), (b), (c), (d)(1), and (3) revised
3626
205.691 Added; eff. 1-2-24
75449
205.691 Regulation at 88 FR 75449 eff. date delayed to 1-12-24
86259
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
205 Policy statement
64783
205.2 Amended; eff. 2-21-25
104392
205.210 Added; eff. 2-21-25
104392
205.270 (d) added; eff. 2-21-25
104393
205.601 (i) introductory text and (j) introductory text revised; eff. 2-21-25
104393
205.605 (b)(36) and (37) redesignated as (b)(37) and (38); new (b)(36) added; eff. 2-21-25
104393
○
