§ 2530.200b-7
Day of service for employees in the maritime industry.
(a)
General rule.
A day of service in the maritime industry which must, as a minimum, be counted for the purposes of determining a year of service, a year of participation for benefit accrual, a break in service and an employment commencement date (or reemployment commencement date) under sections 202, 203 and 204 of the Act and sections 410 and 411 of the Code by a plan that credits service by days of service rather than hours of service (as prescribed in § 2530.200b-2, or under equivalencies permitted under § 2530.200b-3) or elapsed time (as permitted under § 2530.200b-9), is a day of service as defined in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) and (3) of this section.
(1) A day of service is each day for which an employee is paid or entitled to payment for the performance of duties for the employer during the applicable computation period.
(2) A day of service is each day for which an employee is paid, or entitled
to payment, by the employer on account of a period of time during which no duties are performed (irrespective of whether the employment relationship has terminated) due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity (including disability), layoff, jury duty, military duty or leave of absence. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence:
(i) No more than 63 days of service are required to be credited under this paragraph (a)(2) to an employee on account of any single continuous period during which the employee performs no duties (whether or not such period occurs in a single computation period);
(ii) A day for which an employee is directly or indirectly paid, or entitled to payment, on account of a period during which no duties are performed is not required to be credited to the employee if such payment is made or due under a plan maintained solely for the purpose of complying with applicable workmen's compensation (including maintenance and care), or unemployment compensation or disability insurance laws; and
(iii) Days of service are not required to be credited for a payment which solely reimburses an employee for medical or medically related expenses incurred by the employee.
For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), a payment shall be deemed to be made by or due from an employer regardless of whether such payment is made by or due from the employer directly, or indirectly through, among others, a trust, fund, or insurer, to which the employer contributes or pays premiums, and regardless of whether contributions made or due to the trust, fund, insurer or other entity are for the benefit of particular employees or are made on behalf of a group of employees in the aggregate.
(3) A day of service is each day for which back pay, irrespective of mitigation of damages, has been either awarded or agreed to by the employer. Days of service shall not be credited both under paragraph (a)(1) or paragraph (a)(2), as the case may be, and under this subparagraph. Thus, for example, an employee who receives a back pay award following a determination that he or she was paid at an unlawful rate for days of service previously credited will not be entitled to additional credit for the same days of service. Crediting of days of service for back pay awarded or agreed to with respect to periods described in paragraph (a)(2) shall be subject to the limitations set forth in that paragraph. For example, no more than 63 days of service are required to be credited for payments of back pay, to the extent that such back pay is agreed to or awarded for a period of time during which an employee did not or would not have performed duties.
(b)
Special rule for determining days of service for reasons other than the performance of duties.
In the case of a payment which is made or due on account of a period during which an employee performs no duties, and which results in the crediting of days of service under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or, in the case of an award or agreement for back pay, to the extent that such award or agreement is made with respect to a period described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the number of days of service to be credited shall be determined as follows:
(1)
Payments calculated on the basis of units of time.
In the case of a payment made or due which is calculated on the basis of units of time, such as days, weeks or months, the number of days of service to be credited shall be the number of regularly scheduled working days included in the units of time on the basis of which the payment is calculated. For purposes of the preceding sentence, in the case of an employee without a regular work schedule, a plan may provide for the calculation of the number of days of service to be credited on the basis of a 5-day workweek, or may provide for such calculation on any reasonable basis which reflects the average days worked by the employee, or by other employees in the same job classification, over a representative period of time, provided that the basis so used is consistently applied with respect to all employees within the same job classifications, reasonably defined.
(2)
Payments not calculated on the basis of units of time.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, in the case of a payment made or due, which is not calculated on the basis of units of time, the number of days of service
to be credited shall be equal to the amount of the payment divided by the employee's most recent daily rate of compensation before the period during which no duties are performed.
(3)
Rule against double credit.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, an employee is not required to be credited on account of a period during which no duties are performed with a number of days of service which is greater than the number of days regularly scheduled for the performance of duties during such period. For purposes of the preceding sentence, in the case of an employee without a regular work schedule, a plan may provide for the calculation of the number of days of service to be credited to the employee for a period during which no duties are performed on the basis of a 5-day workweek, or may provide for such calculation on any reasonable basis which reflects the average hours worked by the employee, or by other employees in the same job classification, over a representative period of time, provided that the basis so used is consistently applied with respect to all employees in the same job classifications, reasonably defined.
(c)
Crediting of days of service to computation periods.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, days of service described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be credited to the computation period in which the duties are performed.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, days of service described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be credited as follows:
(i) Days of service credited to an employee on account of a payment which is calculated on the basis of units of time, such as days, weeks or months, shall be credited to the computation period or computation periods in which the period during which no duties are performed occurs, beginning with the first unit of time to which the payment relates.
(ii) Days of service credited to an employee by reason of a payment which is not calculated on the basis of units of time shall be credited to the computation period in which the period during which no duties are performed occurs, or if the period during which no duties are performed extends beyond one computation period, such hours of service shall be allocated between not more than the first two computation periods on any reasonable basis which is consistently applied with respect to all employees within the same job classifications, reasonably defined.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, days of service described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be credited to the computation period or periods to which the award or agreement for back pay pertains, rather than to the computation period in which the award, agreement or payment is made.
(4) In the case of days of service to be credited to an employee in connection with a period of no more than 31 days which extends beyond one computation period, all such days of service may be credited to the first computation period or the second computation period. Crediting of days of service under this paragraph must be done consistently with respect to all employees with the same job classifications, reasonably defined.
(d)
Other federal law.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter, amend, modify, invalidate, impair or supersede any law of the United States or any rule or regulation issued under any such law. Thus, for example, nothing in this section shall be construed as denying an employee credit for a day of service if credit is required by separate federal law. Furthermore, the nature and extent of such credit shall be determined under such law.
(e)
Nondaily employees.
For maritime employees whose compensation is not determined on the basis of certain amounts for each day worked during a given period, service shall be credited on the basis of hours of service as determined in accordance with § 2530.200b-2(a) (including use of any equivalency permitted under § 2530.200b-3) or on the basis of elapsed time, as permitted under § 2530.200b-9.
(f)
Plan document.
A plan which credits service on the basis of days of service must state in the plan document the definition of days of service set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, but is not required to state the rules
set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) if they are incorporated by reference.
§ 2530.200b-8
Determination of days of service to be credited to maritime employees.
(a)
General rule.
For the purpose of determining the days of service which must be credited to an employee for a computation period, a plan shall determine days of service from records of days worked and days for which payment is made or due. Any records may be used to determine days of service to be credited to employees under a plan, even though such records are maintained for other purposes, provided that they accurately reflect the actual number of days of service with which an employee is required to be credited under § 2530.200b-7(a). Payroll records, for example, may provide sufficiently accurate data to serve as a basis for determining days of service. If, however, existing records do not accurately reflect the actual number of days of service with which an employee is entitled to be credited, a plan must develop and maintain adequate records. A plan may in any case credit days of service under any method which results in the crediting of no less than the actual number of days of service required to be credited under § 2530.200b-7(a) to each employee in a computation period, even though such method may result in the crediting of days of service in excess of the number of days required to be credited under § 2530.200b-7(a). A plan is not required to prescribe in its documents which records are to be used to determine days of service.
(b)
Determination of pre-effective date days of service.
To the extent that a plan is required to determine days of service completed before the effective date of part 2 of title I of the Act (
see
section 211 of the Act), the plan may use whatever records may be reasonably accessible to it and may make whatever calculations are necessary to determine the approximate number of hours of service completed before such effective date. For example, if a plan or an employer maintaining the plan has, or has access to, only the records of compensation of employees for the period before the effective date, it may derive the pre-effective date days of service by using the daily rate for the period or the days customarily worked. If accessible records are insufficient to make an approximation of the number of pre-effective date days of service for a particular employee or group of employees, the plan may make a reasonable estimate of the days of service completed by such employee or employees during the particular period. For example, if records are available with respect to some employees, the plan may estimate the days of service of other employees in the same job classification based on these records. A plan may use the elapsed time method prescribed under § 2530.200b-9 to determine days of service completed before the effective date of part 2 of title I of the Act.
§ 2530.201-1
Coverage; general.
Coverage of the provisions of part 2 of title I of the Act is determined under a multiple step process. First, the plan must be an employee benefit plan as defined under section 3(3) of the Act and § 2510.3-3. (See also the definitions of employee welfare benefit plan, section 3(1) of the Act and § 2510.3-1 and employe pension benefit plan, section 3(2) of the Act and § 2510.3-2). Second, the employee benefit plan must be subject to title I of the Act. Coverage for title I is specified in section 4 of the Act. Third, section 201 of the Act specifies the employee benefit plans subject to title I which are not subject to the minimum standards of part 2 of title I of the Act. Section 2530.201-2 specifies the employee benefit plans subject to title I of the Act which are exempted from coverage under part 2 of title I of the Act and this part (2530).
§ 2530.201-2
Plans covered by part 2530.
This part (2530) shall apply to any employee benefit plan described in section 4(a) of the Act (and not exempted under section 4(b)) other than—
(a) An employee welfare benefit plan as defined in section 3(1) of the Act and § 2510.3-1;
(b) A plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of
management or highly compensated employees;
(c) A plan established and maintained by a society, order, or association described in section 501(c)(8) or (9) of the Code, if no part of the contributions to or under such plan are made by employers of participants in such plan;
(d) A trust described in section 501(c)(18) of the Code;
(e) A plan which is established and maintained by a labor organization described in section 501(c)(5) of the Code and which does not at any time after the date of enactment of the Act provide for employer contributions;
(f) Any agreement providing payments to a retired partner or a deceased partner's successor in interest, as described in section 736 of the Code;
(g) An individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408 of the Code, or a retirement bond described in section 409 of the Code;
(h) An excess benefit plan as described in section 3(36) of the Act.

# Subpart B—Participation, Vesting and Benefit Accrual
§ 2530.202-1
Eligibility to participate; general.
(a) Section 202 of the Act and section 410 of the Code contain minimum participation standards relating to certain employee pension benefit plans. In general, an employee pension benefit plan may not require, as a condition of participation in the plan, that an employee complete a period of service with the employer or employers maintaining the plan in excess of limits established by section 202 of the Act and section 410 of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder. Service for this purpose is measured in units of years of service. Section 2530.202-2 sets forth rules relating to the computation periods which a plan must use to determine whether an employee has completed a year of service for purposes of eligibility to participate (“eligibility computation periods”).
(b) For rules relating to “service with the employer or employers maintaining the plan”, see § 2530.210.
§ 2530.202-2
Eligibility computation period.
(a)
Initial eligibility computation period.
For purposes of section 202(a)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act and section 410(a)(1)(A)(ii) of the Code, the initial eligibility computation period the plan must use is the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on the employment commencement date. An employee's employment commencement date is the first day for which the employee is entitled to be credited with an hour of service described in § 2530.200b-2(a)(1) for an employer maintaining the plan. (For establishment of a reemployment commencement date following a break in service, see § 2530.200b-4(b)(1)(iii) and (iv).)
(b)
Eligibility computation periods after the initial eligibility computation period.
In measuring years of service for purposes of eligibility to participate after the initial eligibility computation period, a plan may adopt either of the following alternatives:
(1) A plan may designate 12-consecutive-month periods beginning on the first anniversary of an employee's employment commencement date and succeeding anniversaries thereof as the eligibility computation period after the initial eligibility computation period; or
(2) A plan may designate plan years beginning with the plan year which includes the first anniversary of an employee's employment commencement date as the eligibility computation period after the initial eligibility computation period (without regard to whether the employee is entitled to be credited with 1,000 hours of service during such period), provided that an employee who is credited with 1,000 hours of service in both the initial eligibility computation period and the plan year which includes the first anniversary of the employee's employment commencement date is credited with two years of service for purposes of eligibility to participate.
(c)
Service prior to a break in service.
For purposes of applying section 202(b)(4) of the Act and section 410(a)(5)(D) of the Code (relating to years of service completed prior to a break in service for purposes of eligibility to participate), the computation
periods used by a plan in determining years of service before such break shall be the eligibility computation periods established in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)
Plans with 3-year 100 percent vesting.
A plan which, under 202(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act and section 410a(1)(B)(i) of the Code, requires more than one year of service for eligibility to participate in the plan shall use an initial eligibility computation period established under paragraph (a) of this section and eligibility computation periods designated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Thus, for the eligibility computation period after the initial eligibility computation period, such a plan may designate either eligibility computation periods beginning on anniversaries of an employee's employment commencement date or plan years beginning with the plan year which includes the anniversary of the first day of the initial eligibility computation period.
(e)
Alternative eligibility computation period.
The following rule is designed primarily for a plan using a rec-ordkeeping system which does not permit the plan to identify an employee's employment commencement date (or, in the case of an employee who has incurred a one-year break in service, the employee's reemployment commencement date), but which does permit the plan to identify a period of no more than 31 days during which the employee's employment commencement date (or reemployment commencement date) occurred.
(1) A plan may use an initial eligibility computation period (or initial computation period for measuring completion of a year of service upon an employee's return after a one-year break in service) beginning on the first day of a period of no more than 31 days during which an employee's employment commencement date (or reemployment commencement date) occurs and ending on the anniversary of the last day of such period.
(2) If a plan uses an initial eligibility computation period (or initial computation period for measuring completion of a year of service upon an employee's return after a one-year break in service) permitted under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the plan shall use the following computation periods after the initial computation period:
(i) If the plan does not use plan years for computation periods after the initial computation period, the plan shall use computation periods beginning on anniversaries of the first day of the initial computation period and ending on anniversaries of the last day of the initial computation period, and including a period of at least 12 consecutive months.
(ii) If the plan uses plan years for computation periods after the initial computation period, the plan shall use plan years beginning with the plan year which includes the anniversary of the first day of the initial computation period.
(3) For purposes of determining an employee's commencement of participation under section 202(a)(4) of the Act and section 410(a)(4) of the Code, regardless of whether an eligibility computation period permitted under this paragraph includes a period longer than 12 consecutive months, an employee who completes 1,000 hours of service in such eligibility computation period shall be treated as having satisfied the plan's service requirement for eligibility to participate as of the last day of the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on the first day of such eligibility computation period. In the case of a plan described in section 202(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act and section 410(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Code, the requirement of the preceding sentence shall apply only with respect to the last year of service required under the plan for eligibility to participate.
(4)
Example.
A plan maintained by Employer X obtains records from X which indicate the number of hours worked by an employee during a monthly payroll period. The records do not, however, break down the number of hours worked by an employee by days. Thus, after a new employee has begun employment with X it is impossible for the plan to ascertain the employee's employment commencement date from the records furnished by X (although it is possible for the plan to determine the month during which an
employee's employment commencement date occurred). For administrative convenience, in conjunction with the equivalency based on hours worked permitted under § 2530.200b-3(d)(1), and with the method of crediting hours of service to computation periods set forth in § 2530.200b-2(c)(4), the plan uses the alternative initial eligibility computation period permitted under this paragraph. The plan provides that an employee's initial eligibility computation period shall be the period beginning on the first day of the first monthly payroll period for which the employee is entitled to credit for the performance of duties and ending on the last day of the monthly payroll period which includes the anniversary of the last day of the initial monthly payroll period. This condition ensures that the initial eligibility computation period will include the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on the employee's employment commencement date and ending on the day before the anniversary of the employee's employment commencement date. If, however, an employee completes the plans requirement of one year of service for eligibility to participate (
i.e.
, completion of 870 hours worked in an eligibility computation period) in the initial eligibility computation period, the plan provides that the employee is deemed to have satisfied the plan's service requirements for eligibility to participate as of the day before the anniversary of the first day of the initial eligibility computation period. This provision ensures that no employee who has in fact completed 1000 hours of service in the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on the employee's employment commencement date will be admitted to participation later than the date specified under section 202(a)(4) of the Act and section 410(a)(4) of the Code. For example, in the case of an employee who begins employment in January 1977, the employee's initial eligibility computation period begins on January 1, 1977 and ends on January 31, 1978. If the employee completes 879 hours worked in the initial eligibility computation period, the employee is treated as having met the plan's service requirements for eligibility to participate as of December 31, 1977. If the plan provides for semi-annual entry dates of January 1 and July 1, and the employee has met any eligibility requirements of the plan other than the minimum service requirement as of December 31, 1977, the plan must provide that the employee commences participation as of January 1, 1978.
§ 2530.203-1
Vesting; general.
(a) Section 203 of the Act and section 411(a) of the Code contain minimum vesting standards relating to certain employee pension benefit plans. In general, a pension plan subject to section 203 of the Act of section 411(a) of the Code must meet certain requirements relating to an employee's nonforfeitable (“vested”) right to his or her normal retirement benefit. One of these requirements specifies that an employee's accrued benefit derived from employer contributions must be vested in accordance with certain schedules. The schedules (or alternative minimum vesting standards) are generally based on the employee's number of years of service with the employer or employers maintaining the plan. Section 2530.203-2 sets forth rules relating to the computation periods used to determine whether an employee has completed a year of service for vesting purposes (“vesting computation periods”).
(b) For rules relating to service with the employer or employers maintaining the plan,
see
§ 2530.210.
§ 2530.203-2
Vesting computation period.
(a)
Designation of vesting computation periods.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a plan may designate any 12-consecutive-month period as the vesting computation period. The period so designated must apply equally to all participants. This requirement may be satisfied even though the actual 12-consecutive-month periods are not the same for all employees (e.g., if the designated vesting computation period is the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on an employee's employment commencement date and anniversaries of that date). The plan is prohibited, however, from using any period that would result in artificial postponement of vesting credit, such as a period meassured
by anniversaries of the date four months following the employment commencement date.
(b)
Plans with 3-year 100 percent vesting.
For rules regarding when a participant has a nonforfeitable right to his accrued benefit, see section 202(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act and section 410(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Code and regulations issued thereunder.
(c)
Amendments to change the vesting computation period.
(1) A plan may be amended to change the vesting computation period to a different 12-consecutive-month period provided that as a result of such change no employee's vested percentage of the accrued benefit derived from employer contributions is less on any date after such change than such vested percentage would be in the absence of such change. A plan amendment changing the vesting computation period shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of this subparagraph if the first vesting computation period established under such amendment begins before the last day of the preceding vesting computation period and an employee who is credited with 1,000 hours of service in both the vesting computation period under the plan before the amendment and the first vesting computation period under the plan as amended is credited with 2 years of service for those vesting computation periods. For example, a plan which has been using a calendar year vesting computation period is amended to provide for a July 1-June 30 vesting computation period starting in 1977. Employees who complete more than 1,000 hours of service in both of the 12-month periods extending from January 1, 1977 to December 31, 1977 and from July 1, 1977 to June 30, 1978 are advanced two years on the plan's vesting schedule. The plan is deemed to meet the requirements of this subparagraph.
(2) For additional requirements pertaining to changes in the vesting schedule, see section 203(c)(1) of the Act and section 411(a)(10) of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder.
(d)
Service preceding a break in service.
For purposes of applying section 203(b)(3)(D) of the Act and section 411(a)(6)(D) of the Code, (relating to counting years of service before a break in service for vesting purposes), the computation periods used by the plan in computing years of service before such break must be the vesting computation periods. (For application of the break in service rules, see section 203(b)(3)(D) and section 411(a)(6)(D) of the Code and regulations issued thereunder.)
§ 2530.203-3
Suspension of pension benefits upon employment.
(a)
General.
Section 203(a)(3)(B) of the Act provides that the right to the employer-derived portion of an accrued pension benefit shall not be treated as forfeitable solely because an employee pension benefit plan provides that the payment of benefits is suspended during certain periods of reemployment which occur subsequent to the commencement of payment of such benefits. This section sets forth the circumstances and conditions under which such benefit payments may be suspended. A plan may provide for the suspension of pension benefits which commence prior to the attainment of normal retirement age, or for the suspension of that portion of pension benefits which exceeds the normal retirement benefit, or both, for any reemployment and without regard to the provisions of section 203(a)(3)(B) and this regulation to the extent (but only to the extent) that suspension of such benefits does not affect a retiree's entitlement to normal retirement benefits payable after attainment of normal retirement age, or the actuarial equivalent thereof.
(b)
Suspension rules
—(1)
General rule.
A plan may provide for the permanent withholding of an amount which does not exceed the suspendible amount of an employee's accrued benefit for each calendar month, or for each four or five week payroll period ending in a calendar month, during which an employee is employed in “section 203(a)(3)(B) service” as described in § 2530.203-3(c).
(2)
Resumption of payments.
If benefit payments have been suspended pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, payments shall resume no later than the first day of the third calendar month after the calendar month in
which the employee ceases to be employed in section 203(a)(3)(B) service:
Provided,
That the employee has complied with any reasonable procedure adopted by the plan for notifying the plan that he has ceased such employment. The initial payment upon resumption shall include the payment scheduled to occur in the calendar month when payments resume and any amounts withheld during the period between the cessation of employment and the resumption of payments, less any amounts which are subject to offset.
(3)
Offset rules.
A plan which provides for the permanent withholding of benefits may deduct from benefit payments to be made by the plan payments previously made by the plan during those calendar months or pay periods in which the employee was employed in section 203(a)(3)(B) service,
Provided,
That such deduction or offset does not exceed in any one month 25 percent of that month's total benefit payment which would have been due but for the offset (excluding the initial payment described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, which may be subject to offset without limitation).
(4)
Notification.
No payment shall be withheld by a plan pursuant to this section unless the plan notifies the employee by personal delivery or first class mail during the first calendar month or payroll period in which the plan withholds payments that his benefits are suspended. Such notification shall contain a description of the specific reasons why benefit payments are being suspended, a general description of the plan provisions relating to the suspension of payments, a copy of such provisions, and a statement to the effect that applicable Department of Labor regulations may be found in § 2530.203-3 of the Code of Federal Regulations. In addition, the suspension notification shall inform the employee of the plan's procedure for affording a review of the suspension of benefits. Requests for such reviews may be considered in accordance with the claims procedure adopted by the plan pursuant to section 503 of the Act and applicable regulations. In the case of a plan which requires the filing of a benefit resumption notice as a condition precedent to the resumption of benefits, the suspension notification shall also describe the procedure for filing such notice and include the forms (if any) which must be filed. Furthermore, if a plan intends to offset any suspendible amounts actually paid during the periods of employment in section 203(a)(3)(B) service, the notification shall identify specifically the periods of employment, the suspendible amounts which are subject to offset, and the manner in which the plan intends to offset such suspendible amounts. Where the plan's summary plan description (SPD) contains information which is substantially the same as information required by this paragraph (b)(4), the suspension notification may refer the employee to relevant pages of the SPD for information as to a particular item, provided the employee is informed how to obtain a copy of the SPD, or relevant pages thereof, and provided requests for referenced information are honored within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days.
(5)
Verification.
A plan may provide that an employee must notify the plan of any employment. A plan may request from an employee access to reasonable information for the purpose of verifying such employment. Furthermore, a plan may provide that an employee must, at such time and with such frequency as may be reasonable, as a condition to receiving future benefit payments, either certify that he is unemployed or provide factual information sufficient to establish that any employment does not constitute section 203(a)(3)(B) service if specifically requested by the plan administrator. Once an employee has furnished the required certification or information, the plan must forward, at the next regularly scheduled time for payment of benefits, all payments which had been withheld pursuant to this paragraph (b)(5) except to the extent that payments may be withheld and offset pursuant to other provisions of this regulation.
(6)
Status determination.
If a plan provides for benefits suspension, the plan shall adopt a procedure, and so inform employees, whereunder an employee may request, and the plan administrator in a reasonable amount of time will render, a determination of whether
specific contemplated employment will be section 203(a)(3)(B) service for purposes of plan provisions concerning suspension of benefits. Requests for status determinations may be considered in accordance with the claims procedure adopted by the plan pursuant to section 503 of the Act and applicable regulations.
(7)
Presumptions.
(i) A plan which has adopted verification requirements described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, and which complies with the notice requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section may provide that whenever the plan fiduciaries become aware that a retiree is employed in section 203(a)(3)(B) service and the retiree has not complied with the plan's reporting requirements with regard to that employment, the plan fiduciaries may, unless it is unreasonable under the circumstances to do so, act on the basis of a rebuttable presumption that the retiree had worked a period exceeding the plan's minimum number of hours for that month. In addition, a plan covering persons employed in the building trades which has adopted verification requirements described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section and which complies with the notice requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section may provide that whenever the plan fiduciaries become aware that a retiree is employed in section 203(a)(3)(B) service at a construction site and the retiree has not complied with the plan's reporting requirements with regard to that employment, then the plan fiduciaries may, unless it is unreasonable under the circumstances to do so, act on the basis of a rebuttable presumption that the retiree engaged in such employment for the same employer in work at that site for so long before the work in question as that same employer performed that work at that construction site.
(ii) A plan which provides for a presumption described in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section may employ such presumption only if the following requirements are met. The plan must describe its employment verification requirements and the nature and effect of such presumption in the plan's summary plan description and in any communication to plan participants which relates to such verification requirements (for example, employment reporting reminders or forms), and retirees must be furnished such disclosure, whether through receipt of the above communications or by special distribution, at least once every 12 months.
(c)
Section 202(a)(3)(B) service
—(1)
Plans other than multiemployer plans.
In the case of a plan other than a multi-employer plan, as defined in section 3(37) of the Act, the employment of an employee, subsequent to the time the payment of benefits commenced or would have commenced if the employee had not remained in or returned to employment, results in section 203(a)(3)(B) service during a calendar month, or during a four or five week payroll period ending in a calendar month, if the employee, in such month or payroll period,
(i) Completes 40 or more hours of service (as defined in 29 CFR 2530.200b-2(a)(1) and (2)) for an employer which maintains the plan, including employers described in § 2530.210 (d) and (e), as of the time that the payment of benefits commenced or would have commenced if the employee had not remained in or returned to employment; or
(ii) Receives from such employer payment for any such hours of service performed on each of 8 or more days (or separate work shifts) in such month or payroll period,
Provided,
That the plan has not for any purpose determined or used the actual number of hours of service which would be required to be credited to the employee under § 2530.200b-(2)(a).
(2)
Multiemployer plans.
In the case of a multiemployer plan, as defined in section 3(37) of the Act, the employment of an employee subsequent to the time the payment of benefits commenced or would have commenced if the employee had not remained in or returned to employment results in section 203(a)(3)(B) service during a calendar month, or during a four or five week payroll period ending in a calendar month, if the employee, in such month or payroll period:
—Completes 40 or more hours of service (as defined in § 2530.200b-2(a)(1) and (2)) or
—Receives payment for any such hours of service performed on each of 8 or more days (or separate work shifts) in such month or payroll period,
Provided,
That the plan has not for any purpose determined or used the actual number of hours of service which would be required to be credited to the employee under § 2530.200(b)-(2)(a); in
—An industry in which employees covered by the plan were employed and accrued benefits under the plan as a result of such employment at the time that the payment of benefits commenced or would have commenced if the employee had not remained in or returned to employment, and
—A trade or craft in which the employee was employed at any time under the plan, and
—The geographic area covered by the plan at the time that the payment of benefits commenced or would have commenced if the employee had not remained in or returned to employment.
(i)
Industry.
The term “industry” means the business activities of the types engaged in by any employers maintaining the plan.

# Example.
One of the employers contributing to a multiemployer plan engages in heavy construction, another in textile manufacturing, and another in communications. Employee E began his career as an employee of an employer engaged in heavy construction. Later E was employed by an employer in communications. With both employers, E accrued benefits under the plan. If E retires and then becomes reemployed in the same trade or craft and in the same geographic area, employment by E in either heavy construction, communications or textile manufacturing, whether or not with an employer who contributes to the plan or in a self-employed capacity, may be considered by the plan to be employment in the same industry, assuming that employees covered by the plan were accruing benefits as a result of employment in these industries at the time E commenced receiving benefits. This is true even though E did not previously accrue benefits as a result of employment with an employer engaged in textile manufacturing because other employees covered by the plan were employed in that industry and were accruing benefits under the plan as a result of such employment at the time when benefit payments to E commenced or would have commenced if E had not returned to employment.
(ii)
Trade or craft.
A trade or craft is (A) a skill or skills, learned during a significant period of training or practice, which is applicable in occupations in some industry, (B) a skill or skills relating to selling, retailing, managerial, clerical or professional occupations, or (C) supervisory activities relating to a skill or skills described in (A) or (B) of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii), the determination whether a particular job classification, job description or industrial occupation constitutes or is included in a trade or craft shall be based upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Factors which may be examined include whether there is a customary and substantial period of practical, on-the-job training or a period of related supplementary instruction. Notwithstanding any other factor, the registration of an apprenticeship program with the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training of the Employment Training Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor is sufficient for the conclusion that a skill or skills which is the subject of the apprenticeship program constitutes a trade or craft.

# Example.
Participation in a multiemployer plan is limited solely to electricians. Electrician E retired and then became reemployed as a foreman of electricians. Because a “trade or craft” includes related supervisory activities, E remains within his trade or craft for purposes of this section.
(iii)
Geographic area covered by the plan.
(A) With the exception of a plan covering employees in a maritime industry, the “geographic area covered by the plan” consists of any state or any province of Canada in which contributions were made or were required to be made by or on behalf of an employer and the remainder of any Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) which falls in part within such state, determined as of the time that the payment of benefits commenced or would have commenced if the employee had not returned to employment.

# Example.
A multiemployer plan covers plumbers in Pennsylvania. All contributing employers have always been located within Pennsylvania. Accordingly, the “geographic area covered by the plan” consists of Pennsylvania and any SMSAs which fall in part within Pennsylvania. Thus, for example, in the case of the Philadelphia SMSA, Burlington, Camden and Gloucester Counties in New Jersey are within the “geographic area covered by the plan”.
(B) [Reserved—for definition of the geographic area covered by a plan that
covers employees in a maritime industry.]
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii), contributions shall not include amounts contributed: After December 31, 1978 by or on hehalf of an employer where no contributions were made by or on behalf of that employer before that date, if the primary purpose of such contribution is to allow for the suspension of plan benefits in a geographic area not otherwise covered by the plan; or with respect to isolated projects performed in states where plan participants were not otherwise employed.
(3)
Employment in a maritime industry.
For plans covering employees employed in a maritime industry, as defined in § 2530.200b-6, the standard of “five or more days of service, as defined in § 2530.200b-7(a)(1)” shall be used in lieu of the standard “40 or more hours of service”, for purposes of determining whether an employee is employed in section 203(a)(3)(B) service.
(d)
Suspendable amount
—(1)
Life annuity.
In the case of benefits payable periodically on a monthly basis for as long as a life (or lives) continues, such as a straight life annuity or a qualified joint and survivor annuity, a plan may provide that an amount not greater than the portion of a monthly benefit payment derived from employer contributions may be withheld permanently for a calendar month, or for a four or five week payroll period ending in a calendar month, in which the employee is employed in section 203(a)(3)(B) service.
(2)
Other benefit forms.
In the case of benefits payable in a form other than the form described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a plan may provide for the permanent withholding of an amount of the employer-derived portion of benefit payments for a calendar month, or for a four or five week payroll period ending in a calendar month, in which the employee is employed in section 203(a)(3)(B) service, not exceeding the lesser of—
(i) The amount of benefits which would have been payable to the employee if he had been receiving monthly benefits under the plan since actual retirement based on a single life annuity commencing at actual retirement age; or
(ii) The actual amount paid or scheduled to be paid to the employee for such month. Payments which are scheduled to be paid less frequently than monthly may be converted to monthly payments for purposes of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1210-0048)
[46 FR 8903, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 59245, Dec. 4, 1981; 46 FR 60572, Dec. 11, 1981; 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984]
§ 2530.204-1
Year of participation for benefit accrual.
(a)
General.
Section 204(b)(1) of the Act and section 411(b)(1) of the Code contain certain requirements relating to benefit accrual under a defined benefit pension plan. Some of these requirements are based on the number of years of participation included in an employee's period of service. Paragraph (b) of this section relates to service which must be taken into account in determining an employee's period of service for purposes of benefit accrual. Section 2530.204-2 sets forth rules relating to the computation periods to be used in measuring years of participation for benefit accrual (“accrual computation periods”).
(b)
Service which may be disregarded for purposes of benefit accrual.
(1) In calculating an employee's period of service for purposes of benefit accrual under a defined benefit pension plan, section 204(b)(3) of the Act and section 411(b)(3) of the Code permit the following service to be disregarded: service before an employee first becomes a participant in the plan; service which is not required to be taken into account under section 202(b) of the Act and section 410(b)(5) of the Code (relating to one-year breaks in service for purposes of eligibility to participate); and service which is not required to be taken into account under section 204(b)(3)(C) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(C) of the Code (relating to 12-consecutive-month periods during which an employee's service is less than 1,000 hours). In addition, in calculating an employee's period of service for purposes of benefit accrual, a defined benefit plan shall not be required
to take into account service before the conclusion of a series of consecutive 1-year breaks in service occurs which permits a plan to disregard prior service under section 203(b)(3)(D) of the Act and section 411(a)(6)(D) of the Code.
(2)
Example.
The following example illustrates paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A plan has a calendar year vesting and accrual computation period and, under § 2530.202-2 (a) and (b)(1), uses eligibility computation periods beginning on an employee's employment commencement date and anniversaries thereof. The plan provides that an employee who has at least 10 years of service has a vested right to 100 percent of his accrued benefit derived from employer contributions. The plan provides that an employee who is credited with at least 1,000 hours of service in a calendar year accrual computation period is credited with at least partial year of participation for purposes of benefit accrual. An employee whose birthday is October 16, 1956, begins employment with an employer maintaining the plan on January 1, 1977. Under § 2530.202-2(a)(1), January 1, 1977 is the employee's employment commencement date and the calendar year 1977 is the employee's initial eligibility computation period. The employee completes at least 1,000 hours of service in each of the calendar years from 1977 through 1981. On January 1, 1982 the employee is admitted to participation in the plan, having met the plan's age requirement (25 years) and service requirement (one year of service) for eligibility to participate. In 1982, the employee is credited with the number of hours of service required for a full year of participation (
i.e.
, more than 1,000 hours of service). Under § 2530.202-2(c), for purposes of applying section 202(b)(4) of the Act and section 410(a)(5)(D) of the Code (relating to years of service completed before a break in service for purposes of eligibility to participate), eligibility computation periods beginning on the employee's employment commencement date and anniversaries thereof are used under the plan to measure service prior to a break in service (in addition, under § 2530.200b-4(a)(2), the same eligibility computation periods are used in measuring one-year breaks in service for purposes of eligibility to participate). Thus, as of January 1, 1983, the employee is credited with six years of service for purposes of eligibility to participate and is credited with one year of participation. In accordance with section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and section 411(a)(4)(A) of the Code, the plan provides that years of service completed before age 22 are disregarded for purposes of vesting. As of January 1, 1983, therefore, the employee is credited with four years of service for purposes of vesting. In 1983 the employee terminates employment with the employer, incurring one-year breaks in service in each of the calendar years from 1983 through 1986. As of December 31, 1986, the employee's consecutive one-year breaks in service equal the employee's four years of service for vesting before such breaks. Under section 203(b)(3)(D) of the Act and section 410(a)(5)(D) of the Code and the terms of the plan, the four years of service for vesting completed by the employee before his four consecutive one-year breaks in service are not taken into account for purposes of vesting. Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, therefore, in calculating the employee's period of service for purposes of benefit accrual, the plan may disregard the year of participation completed by the employee before his four consecutive one-year breaks in service for vesting, because the four consecutive one-year breaks in service equal the four years of service credited to the employee for vesting. The employee is re-employed by the employer on January 1, 1987 completing an hour of service on that date. Under § 2530.200b-4(b)(1), therefore, January 1, 1987 is the employee's reemployment commencement date. In 1987, the employee completes the number of hours of service required for a full year of participation (
i.e.
, more than 1,000 hours of service). For 1987, therefore, the employee is credited with a year of service for purposes of eligibility to participate and vesting, and with a year of participation. As of December 31, 1987, the employee is credited with one year of service for purposes of vesting, since service before the employee's four consecutive one-year breaks in service—including the year of service completed in 1982—
is not taken into account. Because under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the year of participation credited to the employee for 1982 is not required to be taken into account for purposes of benefit accrual, the employee is credited with one year of participation as of December 31, 1987.
§ 2530.204-2
Accrual computation period.
(a)
Designation of accrual computation periods.
A plan may designate any 12-consecutive-month period as the accrual computation period except that the period so designated must apply equally to all participants. This requirement may be satisfied even though the actual time periods are not the same for all participants. For example, the accrual computation period may be designated as the vesting computation period, the plan year, or the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on either of two semi-annual dates designated for entry to participation under a plan.
(b)
Participation prior to effective date.
For purposes of applying the accrual rules of section 204(b)(1)(D) of the Act and section 411(b)(1)(D) of the Code (relating to accrual requirements for defined benefit plans for periods prior to the effective date of those sections), all service from the date of participation in the plan as determined in accordance with applicable plan provisions, shall be taken into account in determining an employee's period of service. When the plan documents do not provide a definite means for determining the date of commencement of participation, the date of commencement of employment covered under the plan during the period that the employer maintained the plan shall be presumed to be the date of commencement of participation in the plan. The plan may rebut this presumption by demonstrating from circumstances surrounding the operation of the plan, such as the date of commencement of mandatory employee contributions, that participation actually began on a later date.
(c)
Partial year of participation.
(1) Under section 204(b)(3)(C) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(C) of the Code, in calculating an employee's period of service for purposes of benefit accrual, a plan is not required to take into account a 12-consecutive-month period during which the employee's service is less than 1,000 hours of service. In measuring an employee's service for purposes of section 204(b)(3)(C) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(C) of the Code, a plan shall use the accrual computation period designated under paragraph (a) of this section. Under section 204(b)(3)(B) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(B) of the Code, in the case of an employee whose service is not less than 1,000 hours of service during an accrual computation period, the calculation of such employee's period of service will not be treated as made on a reasonable and consistent basis unless service during such computation period is taken into account. To the extent that the employee's service during the accrual computation period is less than the service required under the plan for a full year of participation, the employee must be credited with a partial year of participation equivalent to no less than a ratable portion of a full year of participation.
(2) For purposes of calculating the portion of a full year of participation to be credited to an employee whose service during a computation period is not less than 1,000 hours of service but is less than service required for a full year of participation in the plan, the plan may credit the employee with a greater portion of a full year of participation than a ratable portion, or may credit an employee with a full year of participation even though the employee's service is less than the service required for a full year of participation, provided that such crediting is reasonable and is consistent for all employees within the same job classifications, reasonably established.
(3) In the case of an employee who commences participation in a plan (or recommences participation in the plan upon the employee's return after one or more 1-year breaks in service) on a date other than the first day of an applicable accrual computation period, all hours of service required to be credited to the employee during the entire accrual computation period, including
hours of service credited to the employee for the portion of the computation period before the date on which the employee commences (or recommences) participation, shall be taken into account in determining whether the employee has 1,000 or more hours of service for purposes of section 204(b)(3)(C) of the Act and section 411(b)3)(C) of the Code. If such employee's service is not less than 1,000 hours in such accrual computation period, the employee must be credited with a partial year of participation which is equivalent to no less than a ratable portion of a full year of participation for service credited to the employee for the portion of the computation period after the date of commencement (or recommencement) of participation.
(4)
Examples.
The following are examples of reasonable and consistent methods for crediting partial years of participation:
(i) A plan requires 2,000 hours of service for a full year of participation. An employee who is credited during a computation period with no less than 1,000 hours of service but less than 2,000 hours of service is credited with a partial year of participation equal to a portion of a full year of participation determined by dividing the number of hours of service credited to the employee by 2,000.
(ii) A plan requires 2,000 hours of service for a full year of participation. The plan credits service in an accrual computation period in accordance with the following table:
Hours of service credited
Percentage of full year of participation credited
1000
50
1001 to 1200
60
1201 to 1400
70
1401 to 1600
80
1601 to 1800
90
1801 and above
100
Under this method of crediting partial years of participation, each employee who is credited with not less than 1,000 hours of service is credited with at least a ratable portion of a full year of participation.
(iii) A plan provides that each employee who is credited with at least 1,000 hours of service in an accrual computation period must receive credit for at least a partial year of participation for that computation period. For full accrual, however, the plan requires that an employee must be credited with a specified number of hours worked; employees who meet the 1,000 hours of service requirement but who are not credited with the specified number of hours worked required for a full year of participation are credited with a partial year of participation on a prorata basis. For example, if the plan requires 1,500 hours worked for full accrual, an employee with 1,500 hours worked would be credited with full accrual, but an employee with 1,000 hours worked and 500 other hours of service would be credited with
2/3
of full accrual. The plan's method of crediting service for accrual purposes is consistent with the requirements of this paragraph. It should be noted, however, that use of hours worked as a basis for prorating benefit accrual may result in discrimination prohibited under section 401(a)(4) of the Code.
(iv) Employee A is employed on June 1, 1980 in service covered by a plan with a calendar year accrual computation period, and which requires 1,800 hours of service for a full accrual. Employee A completes 500 hours from June 1, 1980 to December 31, 1980, and completes 100 hours per month in each month during 1981. A is admitted to participation on July 1, 1981. A is credited with 1,200 hours of service for the accrual computation period beginning January 1, 1981. Under the rules set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, A is required to be credited with not less than one-third of a full accrual (600 hours divided by 1,800 hours).
(d)
Prohibited double proration.
(1) In the case of a defined benefit plan that (i) defines benefits on a basis which has the effect of prorating benefits to reflect less than full-time employment or less than maximum compensation and (ii) does not adjust less-than-full-time service to reflect the equivalent of full-time hours or compensation (as the case may be), the plan may not further prorate benefit accrual under section 204(b)(3)(B) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(B) of the Code by crediting less than full years of participation, as would otherwise be permitted under paragraph (c) of this section. These
plans must credit, except when service may be disregarded under section 204(b)(3)(C) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(C) of the Code (relating to less than 1,000 hours of service), less-than-full-time employees with a full year of participation for the purpose of accrual of benefits.
(2)
Examples.
(i) A plan's defined benefit formula provides that the annual retirement benefit shall be 2 percent of the average compensation in all years of participation multiplied by the number of years of participation. Employee A is a full-time employee who has completed 2,000 hours during each of 20 accrual computation periods. A's average hourly rate was $5 an hour. Thus, A's average compensation for each year during participation in the plan is $10,000 ($5 per hour multiplied by 2,000 hours). If the plan states that a full year of participation is 2,000 hours, then A's annual retirement benefits, if he retired at that time, would be $4,000 ($10,000 per year of compensation × .02 × 20 years of participation). Employee B, however, is a part-time employee who completes 1,000 hours of service during each of 20 accrual computation periods. Like A, B's average hourly rate is $5 per hour. B's average compensation for his total years of participation is $5,000 ($5 per hour multiplied by 1,000 hours). Thus, the plan's benefit formula, by basing benefits on an employee's average compensation in all years of participation, in effect prorates benefits to reflect the fact that during B's participation in the plan, he has earned less than the maximum compensation that a full-time employee paid at the same rate could earn during the same period of participation in the plan. Under the rule of subparagraph (1), therefore, the plan is not permitted to prorate B's years of participation to reflect B's less than full-time employment throughout his participation in the plan. Therefore, B's annual retirement benefit would be $2,000 ($5,000 average compensation × .02 × 20 years of participation). (If double proration were permitted, then B's total years of participation would be only 10 since he would be credited with only one-half of a year of participation during each of the accrual computation periods (1,000/2,000). Thus, B's annual retirement benefit would be $1,000—i.e., $5,000 average compensation × .02 × 10 years of participation.)
(ii) If the plan adjusts the average compensation during plan participation to reflect full compensation, then the plan may prorate years of participation. Thus, the average full annual compensation for B would be $10,000 rather than the $5,000 actually paid. Employee B's annual retirement benefit would then be $2,000 ($10,000 average full compensation × .02 × 10 years of participation).
(e)
Amendments to change accrual computation periods.
(1) A plan may be amended to change the accrual computation period to a different 12-consecutive-month period, provided that the period between the end of the last accrual computation period under the plan as in effect before such amendment and the beginning of the first accrual computation period under the plan as amended is treated as a partial accrual computation period in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2) In the case of a partial accrual computation period, the following rules shall apply:
(i) A plan having a minimum service requirement expressed in hours of service (or other units of service) for benefit accrual in a full accrual computation period (as permitted under section 204(b)(3)(B) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(B) of the Code) may apply a minimum service requirement for benefit accrual in a partial accrual computation period which is equal to the plan's minimum service requirement for benefit accrual in a full accrual computation period, multiplied by the ratio of the length of the partial accrual computation period to a full year.
(ii) In the case of a participant who meets a plan's minimum service requirement for benefit accrual in a partial accrual computation period (as permitted under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section), the plan shall credit the participant with at least a partial year of participation for purposes of benefit accrual. Credit for a partial accrual computation period shall be determined in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(3)
Example.
Effective October 1, 1977, a plan is amended to change the accrual computation period from the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on January 1 to the 12-consecutive-month period beginning on October 1. The period from January 1, 1977 to September 30, 1977 must be treated as a partial accrual computation period. The plan has a requirement that a participant must be credited with 1,000 hours of service in an accrual computation period in order to be credited with a year of participation for purposes of benefit accrual. For the partial accrual computation period the plan may require a participant to be credited with 750 hours of service in the partial accrual computation period in order to receive credit for purposes of benefit accrual (1,000 hours of service multiplied by the ratio of 9 months to 12 months). To the extent permitted under paragraph (d) of this section, the plan may prorate accrual credit on whatever basis the plan uses to prorate accrual credit for employees whose service is 1,000 hours of service or more but less than service required for full accrual in a full accrual computation period.
§ 2530.204-3
Alternative computation methods for benefit accrual.
(a)
General.
Under section 204(b)(3)(A) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(A) of the Code, a defined benefit pension plan may determine an employee's service for purposes of benefit accrual on the basis of accrual computation periods, as specified in § 2530.204-2, or on any other basis which is reasonable and consistent and which takes into account all covered service during the employee's participation in the plan which is included in a period of service required to be taken into account under section 202(b) of the Act and section 410(a)(5) of the Code. If, however, a plan determines an employee's service for purposes of benefit accrual on a basis other than computation periods, it must be possible to prove that, despite the fact that benefit accrual under the plan is not based on computation periods, the plan's provisions meet at least one of the three benefit accrual rules of section 204(b)(1) of the Act and section 411(b)(1) of the Code under all circumstances. Further, a plan which does not provide for benefit accrual on the basis of computation periods may not disregard service under section 204(b)(3)(C) of the Act and section 411(b)(3)(C) of the Code.
(b)
Examples.
The following are examples of methods of determining an employee's period of service for purposes of benefit accrual under which an employee's period of service is not determined on the basis of computation periods but which may be used by a plan provided that the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met:
(1)
Career compensation.
A defined benefit formula based on a percentage of compensation earned in a participant's career or during participation, with no variance depending on hours completed in given periods.
(2)
Credited hours.
A defined benefit formula pursuant to which an employee is credited with a specified amount of accrual for each hour of service (or hour worked or regular time hour) completed by the employee during his or her career.
(3)
Elapsed time.
See § 2530.200b-9(e).
§ 2530.204-4
Deferral of benefit accrual.
For purposes of section 204(b)(1)(E) of the Act and section 411(b)(1)(E) of the Code (which permit deferral of benefit accrual until an employee has 2 continuous years of service), an employee shall be credited with a year of service for each computation period in which he or she completes 1,000 hours of service. The computation period shall be the eligibility computation period designated in accordance with § 2530.202-2.

# Subpart C—Form and Payment of Benefits
§ 2530.205
[Reserved]
§ 2530.206
Time and order of issuance of domestic relations orders.
(a)
Scope.
This section implements section 1001 of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 by clarifying certain timing issues with respect to domestic relations orders and qualified domestic relations orders under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
The examples herein illustrate the
application of this section in certain circumstances. This section also applies in circumstances not described in the examples.
(b)
Subsequent domestic relations orders.
(1) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a domestic relations order shall not fail to be treated as a qualified domestic relations order solely because the order is issued after, or revises, another domestic relations order or qualified domestic relations order.
(2) The rule described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
Subsequent domestic relations order between the same parties.
Participant and Spouse divorce, and the administrator of Participant's 401(k) plan receives a domestic relations order. The administrator determines that the order is a QDRO. The QDRO allocates a portion of Participant's benefits to Spouse as the alternate payee. Subsequently, before benefit payments have commenced, Participant and Spouse seek and receive a second domestic relations order. The second order reduces the portion of Participant's benefits that Spouse was to receive under the QDRO. The second order does not fail to be treated as a QDRO solely because the second order is issued after, and reduces the prior assignment contained in, the first order. The result would be the same if the order were instead to increase the prior assignment contained in the first order.

# Example (2).
Subsequent domestic relations order between different parties.
Participant and Spouse 1 divorce and the administrator of Participant's 401(k) plan receives a domestic relations order. The administrator determines that the order is a QDRO. The QDRO allocates a portion of Participant's benefits to Spouse 1 as the alternate payee. Participant marries Spouse 2, and then they divorce. Participant's 401(k) plan administrator subsequently receives a domestic relations order pertaining to Spouse 2. The order assigns to Spouse 2 a portion of Participant's 401(k) benefits not already allocated to Spouse 1. The second order does not fail to be a QDRO solely because the second order is issued after the plan administrator has determined that an earlier order pertaining to Spouse 1 is a QDRO.
(c)
Timing.
(1) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a domestic relations order shall not fail to be treated as a qualified domestic relations order solely because of the time at which it is issued.
(2) The rule described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
Orders issued after death.
Participant and Spouse divorce, and the administrator of Participant's plan receives a domestic relations order, but the administrator finds the order deficient and determines that it is not a QDRO. Shortly thereafter, Participant dies while actively employed. A second domestic relations order correcting the defects in the first order is subsequently submitted to the plan. The second order does not fail to be treated as a QDRO solely because it is issued after the death of the Participant. The result would be the same even if no order had been issued before the Participant's death, in other words, the order issued after death were the only order.

# Example (2).
Orders issued after divorce.
Participant and Spouse divorce. As a result, Spouse no longer meets the definition of “surviving spouse” under the terms of the plan. Subsequently, the plan administrator receives a domestic relations order requiring that Spouse be treated as the Participant's surviving spouse for purposes of receiving a death benefit payable under the terms of the plan only to a participant's surviving spouse. The order does not fail to be treated as a QDRO solely because, at the time it is issued, Spouse no longer meets the definition of a “surviving spouse” under the terms of the plan.

# Example (3).
Orders issued after annuity starting date.
Participant retires and begins receipt of benefits in the form of a straight life annuity, equal to $1,000 per month, and with respect to which Spouse has consented to the waiver of the surviving spousal rights provided under the plan and section 205 of ERISA. Subsequent to the commencement of benefits (in other words, subsequent to the annuity starting date as defined in section 205(h)(2) of ERISA and as further explained in 26 CFR 1.401(a)-20, Q
A-10(b)), Participant and Spouse divorce and present the plan with a domestic relations order requiring 50 percent ($500) of Participant's future monthly annuity payments under the plan to be paid instead to Spouse, as an alternate payee (so that monthly payments of $500 are to be made to Spouse during Participant's lifetime). Pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the order does not fail to be a QDRO solely because it is issued after the annuity starting date. If the order instead had required payments to Spouse for the lifetime of Spouse, this would constitute a reannuitization with a new annuity starting date, rather than merely allocating to Spouse a part of the determined annuity payments due to Participant, so that the order, while not failing to be a QDRO because of the timing of the order, would fail to meet the requirements of section 206(d)(3)(D)(i) of ERISA (unless the plan otherwise permits such a change after the participant's annuity starting date). See 29 CFR 2530.206(d)(2), Example (4).
(d)
Requirements and protections.
(1) Any domestic relations order described in this section shall be a qualified domestic relations order only if the order satisfies the same requirements and protections that apply under section 206(d)(3) of ERISA.
(2) The rule described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
Type or form of benefit.
Participant and Spouse divorce, and their divorce decree provides that the parties will prepare a domestic relations order assigning 50 percent of Participant's benefits under a 401(k) plan to Spouse to be paid in monthly installments over a 10-year period. Shortly thereafter, Participant dies while actively employed. A domestic relations order consistent with the divorce decree is subsequently submitted to the 401(k) plan; however, the plan does not provide for 10-year installment payments of the type described in the order. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the order does not fail to be treated as a QDRO solely because it is issued after the death of Participant, but the order would fail to be a QDRO under section 206(d)(3)(D)(i) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section because the order requires the plan to provide a type or form of benefit, or any option, not otherwise provided under the plan.

# Example (2).
Segregation of payable benefits.
Participant and Spouse divorce, and the administrator of Participant's plan receives a domestic relations order under which Spouse would begin to receive benefits immediately if the order is determined to be a QDRO. The plan administrator separately accounts for the amounts covered by the domestic relations order as is required under section 206(d)(3)(H)(v) of ERISA. The plan administrator finds the order deficient and determines that it is not a QDRO. Subsequently, after the expiration of the segregation period pertaining to that order, the plan administrator receives a second domestic relations order relating to the same parties under which Spouse would begin to receive benefits immediately if the second order is determined to be a QDRO. Notwithstanding the expiration of the first segregation period, the amounts covered by the second order must be separately accounted for by the plan administrator for an 18-month period, in accordance with section 206(d)(3)(H) of ERISA and paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

# Example (3).
Previously assigned benefits.
Participant and Spouse 1 divorce, and the administrator of Participant's 401(k) plan receives a domestic relations order. The administrator determines that the order is a QDRO. The QDRO assigns a portion of Participant's benefits to Spouse 1 as the alternate payee. Participant marries Spouse 2, and then they divorce. Participant's 401(k) plan administrator subsequently receives a domestic relations order pertaining to Spouse 2. The order assigns to Spouse 2 a portion of Participant's 401(k) benefits already assigned to Spouse 1. The second order does not fail to be treated as a QDRO solely because the second order is issued after the plan administrator has determined that an earlier order pertaining to Spouse 1 is a QDRO. The second order, however, would fail to be a QDRO under section 206(d)(3)(D)(iii) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section because it assigns to Spouse 2 all or a portion of Participant's benefits that are already assigned to Spouse 1 by the prior QDRO.

# Example (4).
Type or form of benefit.
Participant retires and commences benefit payments in the form of a straight life annuity based on the life of Participant, with respect to which Spouse consents to the waiver of the surviving spousal rights provided under the plan and section 205 of ERISA. Participant and Spouse divorce after the annuity starting date and present the plan with a domestic relations order that eliminates the straight life annuity based on Participant's life and provides for Spouse, as alternate payee, to receive all future benefits in the form of a straight life annuity based on the life of Spouse. The plan does not allow reannuitization with a new annuity starting date, as defined in section 205(h)(2) of ERISA (and as further explained in 26 CFR 1.401(a)-20, Q
A-10(b)). Pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the order does not fail to be a QDRO solely because it is issued after the annuity starting date, but the order would fail to be a QDRO under section 206(d)(3)(D)(i) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section because the order requires the plan to provide a type or form of benefit, or any option, not otherwise provided under the plan. However, the order would not fail to be a QDRO under section 206(d)(3)(D)(i) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section if instead it were to require all of Participant's future payments under the plan to be paid instead to Spouse, as an alternate payee (so that payments that would otherwise be paid to the Participant during the Participant's lifetime are instead to be made to the Spouse during the Participant's lifetime).
[75 FR 32850, June 10, 2010]

# Subpart D—Plan Administration as Related to Benefits
§§ 2530.207-2530.209
[Reserved]
§ 2530.210
Employer or employers maintaining the plan.
(a)
General statutory provisions
—(1)
Eligibility to participate and vesting.
Except as otherwise provided in section 202(b) or 203(b)(1) of the Act and sections 410(a)(5), 411(a)(5) and 411(a)(6) of the Code, all years of service with the employer or employers maintaining the plan shall be taken into account for purposes of section 202 of the Act and section 410 of the Code (relating to minimum eligibility standards) and section 203 of the Act and section 411(a) of the Code (relating to minimum vesting standards).
(2)
Accrual of benefits.
Except as otherwise provided in section 202(b) of the Act and section 410(a)(5) of the Code, all years of participation under the plan must be taken into account for purposes of section 204 of the Act and section 411(b) of the Code (relating to benefit accrual). Section 204(b) of the Act and section 411(b) of the Code require only that periods of actual participation in the plan (e.g., covered service) be taken into account for purposes of benefit accrual.
(b)
General rules concerning service to be credited under this section.
Section 210 of the Act and sections 413(c), 414(b), and 414(c) of the Code provide rules applicable to sections 202, 203, and 204 of the Act and sections 410, 411(a), and 411(b) of the Code for purposes of determining who is an “employer or employers maintaining the plan” and, accordingly, what service is required to be taken into account in the case of a plan maintained by more than one employer. Paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section set forth the rules for determining service required to be taken into account in the case of a plan or plans maintained by multiple employers, controlled groups of corporations and trades or businesses under common control. Note throughout that every mention of multiple employer plans includes multiemployer plans. See § 2530.210(c)(3). Paragraph (f) of this section sets forth special break in service rules for such plans. Paragraph (g) of this section applies the break in service rules of sections 202(b)(4) and 203(b)(3)(D) of the Act and sections 410(a)(5)(D) and 411(a)(6)(D) of the Code (rule of parity) to such plans.
(c)
Multiple employer plans
—(1)
Eligibility to participate and vesting.
A multiple employer plan shall be treated as if all maintaining employers constitute a single employer so long as an employee is employed in either covered service or contiguous noncovered service. Accordingly, except as referred to in paragraph (a)(1) and provided in paragraph (f) of this section, in determining an employee's service for eligibility to participate and vesting purposes, all covered service with an employer or employers maintaining the plan and all contiguous noncovered service with an employer or employers maintaining the plan shall be taken into account. Thus, for example, if an employee in service covered under a multiple employer plan leaves covered service with one employer maintaining the plan and is employed immediately thereafter in covered service with another employer maintaining the plan, the plan is required to credit all hours of service with both employers for purposes of participation and vesting. If an employee moves from contiguous noncovered to covered service, or from covered service to contiguous noncovered service, with the same employer, the plan is required to credit all hours of service with such employer for purposes of eligibility to participate and vesting.
(2)
Benefit accrual.
A multiple employer plan shall be treated as if all maintaining employers constitute a single employer so long as an employee is employed in covered service. Accordingly, except as referred to in paragraph (a)(2) and provided in paragraph (f) of this section, in determining a participant's service for benefit accrual purposes, all covered service with an employer or employers maintaining the plan shall be taken into account.
(3)
Definitions.
(i) For purposes of this section, the term “multiple employer plan” shall mean a multiemployer plan as defined in section 3(37) of the Act and section 414(f) of the Code or a multiple employer plan within the meaning of sections 413 (b) and (c) of the
Code and the regulations issued thereunder. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a plan maintained solely by members of the same controlled group of corporations within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this section or by trades or businesses which are under the common control of one person or group of persons within the meaning of paragraph (e) of this section shall not be deemed to be a multiple employer plan for purposes of this section, and such plan is required to apply the rules under this section which are applicable to controlled groups of corporations or commonly controlled trades or businesses respectively.
(ii) For purposes of this section, the term “covered service” shall mean service with an employer or employers maintaining the plan within a job classification or class of employees covered under the plan.
(iii) For purposes of this section the term “noncovered service” shall mean service with an employer or employers maintaining the plan which is not covered service.
(iv)(A)
General.
For purposes of this section noncovered service shall be deemed “contiguous” if (
1
) the noncovered service precedes or follows covered service and (
2
) no quit, discharge, or retirement occurs between such covered service and noncovered service.
(B)
Exception.
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, in the case of a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this section or trades or businesses which are under the common control of one person or group of persons within the meaning of paragraph (e) of this section, any transfer of an employee from one member of the controlled group to another member or from one trade or business under common control to another trade or business under the common control of the same person or group of persons shall result in the period of noncovered service which immediately precedes or follows such transfer being deemed “noncontiguous” for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section.
Diagram No. 1. (Multiple Employer Plan.)
EC21OC91.033
Assume for purposes of diagram No. 1 that X and Y are both employers who are required to contribute to a multiple employer plan and that neither employer maintains any other plan. Covered service is represented by the shaded segments of the diagram. After completing 1 year of noncovered service, employee A immediately enters covered service with X and completes 4 years of covered service. For purposes of eligibility to participate and vesting, the plan is required to credit employee A with 5 years of service with employer X because his period of service with X includes a period of covered service and a period of contiguous noncovered service. On the other hand, employee B, immediately after completing 2 years of noncovered service with X, enters covered service with Y. Because B quit employment with X, his period of noncovered service with X is not contiguous and, therefore, is not required to be taken into account. In the case of employee C, the plan is required to take into account all service with employers X and Y because employee C is employed in covered service with both employers.
Diagram No. 2. (Multiple Employer.)
EC21OC91.034
The multiple employer plan rules with respect to noncovered service are illustrated in diagram No. 2. Assume that X and Y are both employers who are required to contribute to a multiple employer plan and that neither employer maintains any other plan. Covered service is represented by the shaded segments of the diagram. Employee E completed 3 years of service with employer X in covered service and then immediately entered noncovered service with X. Because E's noncovered service is contiguous, the plan is required to take into account all service with X for purposes of eligibility to participate and vesting under the multiple employer plan. Employee F does not continue to receive credit; F quit the employment of Y and entered noncovered service with X.
(d)
Controlled groups of corporations.
(1) With respect to a plan maintained by one or more members of a controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of section 1563(a) of the Code, determined without regard to sections 1563(a)(4) and (e)(3)(C), all employees of such corporations shall be treated as employed by a single employer.
(2) Accordingly, except as referred to in paragraph (a)(1) and provided in paragraph (f) of this section, in determining an employee's service for eligibility to participate and vesting purposes, all service with any employer which is a member of the controlled group of corporations shall be taken into account. Except as referred to in paragraph (a)(2) and provided in paragraph (f) of this section, in determining a participant's service for benefit accrual purposes, all service during periods of participation covered under the plan with any employer which is a member of the controlled group of corporations shall be taken into account.
(e)
Commonly controlled trades or businesses.
With respect to a plan maintained only by one or more trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) which are under common control within the meaning of section 414(c) of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder, all employees of such trades or businesses shall be treated as employed by a single employer. Accordingly, except as referred to in paragraph (a)(1) and provided in paragraph (f) of this section, in determining an employee's service for eligibility to participate and vesting purposes, all service with any employer which is under common control shall be taken into account. Except as referred to in paragraph (a)(2) and provided in paragraph (f) of this section, in determining a participant's service for benefit accrual purposes, all service during periods of participation covered under the plan with any employer which is under common control shall be taken into account.
Diagram No. 3. (Controlled group or commonly controlled trade or business.)
EC21OC91.035
Assume for purposes of diagram No. 3 that X and Y are either members of the same controlled group of corporations or trades or businesses which are under the same common control. The dotted segments of the diagram represent plan coverage under plans separately maintained by X and Y. Neither employer maintains any other plans. Because A1, B1, C1, and D1 have their service with X and Y treated as if X and Y were a single employer, the plans are required to take into account all service with X and Y for eligibility to participate and vesting purposes.
(f)
Special break in service rules.
(1) In addition to service which may be disregarded under the statutory provisions referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, a multiple employer plan may disregard noncontiguous non- covered service.
(2) In the case of a plan maintained solely by one or more members of a controlled group of corporations or one or more trades or businesses which are under common control, if one of the maintaining employers is also a participating employer in a multiple employer plan which includes other employers which are not members of the controlled group or commonly controlled trades or businesses, service with such other employer maintaining the multiple employer plan may be disregarded by the controlled group or commonly controlled plan.
Diagram No. 4. (Break in Service Rules.)
EC21OC91.036
Diagram No. 4 illustrates the break in service rules of paragraph (f) of this section. Assume for purposes of diagram No. 4 that employer Z is controlled by employer X but employer Y's only relation to X and Z is that X, Y, and Z are required to contribute to a multiple employer plan. The multiple employer plan, represented by the shaded segments of the diagram, provides for 100 percent vesting after 10 years. X, Y, and Z maintain no other plans.
Employee G completed 5 years of covered service with employer Y, and then moved to noncovered service with employer Z. G's noncovered service is noncontiguous (see employee F in diagram No. 2 above), and such service may be disregarded for purposes of the multiple employer plan under the rule in paragraph (f)(1).
Employee H completed 2 years of covered service with employer Y and then entered covered service with employer X for 1 year. The multiple employer plan is required to credit H with 3 years of service. H then entered noncovered service with employer Z. H's noncovered service is noncontiguous (see employee F in diagram No. 2 above), and such service may be disregarded for purposes of the multiple employer plan under the rule in paragraph (f)(1).
(g)
Rule of parity.
For purposes of sections 202(b)(4) and 203(b)(3)(D) of the Act and sections 410(a)(5)(D) and 411(a)(6)(D) of the Code, in the case of an employee who is a nonvested participant in employer-derived accrued benefits at the time he incurs a 1-year break in service, years of service completed by such employee before such break are not required to be taken into account if at such time he incurs consecutive 1-year breaks in service which equal or exceed the aggregate number of years of service before such breaks. This is so even though the period of noncontiguous noncovered service with an employer or employers maintaining the plan may subsequently be deemed contiguous as the result of the employee entering covered service with the same employer maintaining the plan and, consequently, such plan may be required to credit such service.
Diagram No. 5. (Rule of parity)
EC21OC91.037
Assume for purposes of diagram No. 5 that X and Y are both employers who are required to contribute to a multiple employer plan which contains a provision applying the rule of parity. Covered service is represented by the shaded segments of the diagram. The plan has 100% vesting after 10 years. X and Y maintain no other plan.
The multiple employer plan credited employee I with 4 years of service with X when he quit employment with X and entered noncovered service with Y. As a result of 4 years of noncontiguous noncovered service with Y, employee I incurred 4 consecutive 1-year breaks in service, so that the multiple employer plan may disregard his prior service (
i.e.
, the 4 years of service with X).
When employee I entered covered service with Y (as a “new employee”), his 4 years of noncontiguous service with Y became contiguous for purposes of the multiple employer plan. Consequently, after 1 year of covered service with Y, the plan is required to credit employee I with 5 years of service.
(h)
Example.
Under section 203(b)(1)(C) of the Act and section 411(a)(4)(C) of the Code, service with an employer prior to such employer's adoption of the plan need not be taken into account. The following example demonstrates that this rule applies even if an employee is employed in contiguous noncovered service. The example is applicable to any plan subject to the rules of this section. However, for purposes of clarity, the example assumes that X and Y are required to contribute to a multiple employer plan.
Assume that employee D completed 3 years of covered service with employer Y as of the date X adopts the plan. Immediately after X's adoption of the plan D left covered service with Y and D entered covered service with X. His prior covered service with Y is
required to be counted, and D remains a participant.
On the other hand, if D had entered service with X any time prior to X's adoption of the plan and subsequently was covered by the plan when X adopted it, his prior service with Y must also be counted, unless such service may be disregarded under the break in service rules because the period of service with X before X's adoption of the plan was equal to or greater than his prior service with Y. For example, if X adopted the plan three years after D began employment with X, and consequently after D had incurred 3 consecutive 1-year breaks in service, his prior service with Y could be disregarded.
(i) Comprehensive diagram. (No. 6)
EC21OC91.038
Assume for purposes of diagram No. 6 that employer Z is controlled by employer X within the meaning of paragraph (d) but employer Y's only relation to X and Z is that X, Y and Z are required to contribute to a multiple employer plan. The shaded segments represent coverage under the multiple employer plan which contains a provision applying the rule of parity. The dotted segment represents a separate plan maintained by Z. Both plans have 100% vesting after 10 years.
Employee J completed 3 years of service with employer X in covered service with the multiple employer plan. J then entered non- covered service with Y and remained with Y for 1 year, and thereby incurred a 1-year break in service under the multiple employer plan. J then entered covered service with employer Y, thereby causing the noncovered service with Y to become contiguous. Covered service with X and contiguous noncovered and covered service with Y must be taken into account for purposes of the multiple employer plan; accordingly, that plan is required to credit J with a total of 5 years of service.
J then left service with Y and entered noncovered service (with respect to the multiple employer plan) with Z. J remained in noncovered service with Z (with respect to the multiple employer plan) for 5 years and thereby incurred 5 consecutive 1-year break in service for purposes of the multiple employer plan. Consequently, the prior service with X and Y may be disregarded for purposes of the multiple employer plan.
J then entered covered service under the multiple employer plan with Z and completed 1 year of service. Because the 5 years of noncovered service with Z is contiguous with the 1 year of covered service, the multiple employer plan is now required to credit J with 6 years of service for purposes of eligibility to participate and vesting.
For purposes of Z's controlled group plan (
i.e.
, dotted segment), employee J is entitled to receive credit for 9 years of service. The 3 years of service with X, a member of the controlled group, may not be disregarded under the rule of parity because J incurred only 2 consecutive 1-year breaks in service while employed with Y. When J entered service with Z covered under Z's controlled group plan, the 3 years of service with X were still required to be credited by the controlled group plan. In addition, J must receive credit for the 5 years of service with Z covered under the controlled group plan. Finally, when J moved to service with Z covered under the multiple employer plan the controlled group plan was required to credit J with an additional year of service.
SUBCHAPTER E [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER F—FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
Pt. 2550

# PART 2550—RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
Sec.
2550.401c-1
Definition of “plan assets”—insurance company general accounts.
2550.403a-1
Establishment of trust.
2550.403b-1
Exemptions from trust requirement.
2550.404a-1
Investment duties.
2550.404a-2
Safe harbor for automatic rollovers to individual retirement plans.
2550.404a-3
Safe harbor for distributions from terminated individual account plans.
2550.404a-4
Selection of annuity providers—safe harbor for individual account plans.
2550.404a-5
Fiduciary requirements for disclosure in participant-directed individual account plans.
2550.404b-1
Maintenance of the indicia of ownership of plan assets outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States.
2550.404c-1
ERISA section 404(c) plans.
2550.404c-5
Fiduciary relief for investments in qualified default investment alternatives.
2550.407a-1
General rule for the acquisition and holding of employer securities and employer real property.
2550.407a-2
Limitation with respect to the acquisition of qualifying employer securities and qualifying employer real property.
2550.407d-5
Definition of the term “qualifying employer security”.
2550.407d-6
Definition of the term “employee stock ownership plan”.
2550.408b-1
General statutory exemption for loans to plan participants and beneficiaries who are parties in interest with respect to the plan.
2550.408b-2
General statutory exemption for services or office space.
2550.408b-3
Loans to Employee Stock Ownership Plans.
2550.408b-4
Statutory exemption for investments in deposits of banks or similar financial institutions.
2550.408b-6
Statutory exemption for ancillary services by a bank or similar financial institution.
2550.408b-19
Statutory exemption for cross-trading of securities.
2550.408c-2
Compensation for services.
2550.408e
Statutory exemption for acquisition or sale of qualifying employer securities and for acquisition, sale, or lease of qualifying employer real property.
2550.408g-1
Investment advice—participants and beneficiaries.
2550.408g-2
Investment advice—fiduciary election.
2550.412-1
Temporary bonding requirements.
Appendix A to Part 2550—Model Notice for Section 404a-3

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 1135, sec. 102, Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978, 5 U.S.C. App. at 727 (2012) and Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-2011, 77 FR 1088 (Jan. 9, 2012). Section 2550.401c-1 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1101. Sections 2550.404a-2 and 2550.404a-3 also issued under sec. 657, Pub. L. 107-16, 115 Stat. 38. Sections 2550.404a-5, 2550.404c-1 and 2550.404c-5 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1104. Sec. 2550.408b-1 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1108(b)(1). Sec. 2550.408b-19 also issued under sec. 611, Pub. L. 109-280, 120 Stat. 780, 972. Sec. 2550.412-1 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1112.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 28009, 28012, July 1, 2025, the authority citation to part 2550 was amended, effective Sept. 2, 2025.
§ 2550.401c-1
Definition of “plan assets”—insurance company general accounts.
(a)
In general.
(1) This section describes, in the case where an insurer issues one or more policies to or for the benefit of an employee benefit plan (and such policies are supported by assets of an insurance company's general account), which assets held by the insurer (other than plan assets held in its separate accounts) constitute plan assets for purposes of Subtitle A, and Parts 1 and 4 of Subtitle B, of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or the Act) and section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), and provides guidance with respect to the application of Title I of the Act and section 4975 of the Code to the general account assets of insurers.
(2) Generally, when a plan has acquired a Transition Policy (as defined in paragraph (h)(6) of this section), the plan's assets include the Transition Policy, but do not include any of the
underlying assets of the insurer's general account if the insurer satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section or, if the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) were not satisfied, the insurer cures the non-compliance through satisfaction of the requirements in paragraph (i)(5) of this section.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a plan's assets will not include any of the underlying assets of the insurer's general account if the insurer fails to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section solely because of the takeover of the insurer's operations from management as a result of the granting of a petition filed in delinquency proceedings in the State court where the insurer is domiciled.
(b)
Approval by fiduciary independent of the issuer
—(1)
In general.
An independent plan fiduciary who has the authority to manage and control the assets of the plan must expressly authorize the acquisition or purchase of the Transition Policy. For purposes of this paragraph, a fiduciary is not independent if the fiduciary is an affiliate of the insurer issuing the policy.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the authorization by an independent plan fiduciary is not required if:
(i) The insurer is the employer maintaining the plan, or a party in interest which is wholly owned by the employer maintaining the plan; and
(ii) The requirements of section 408(b)(5) of the Act are met.
1
1
The Department notes that, because section 401(c)(1)(D) of the Act and the definition of Transition Policy preclude the issuance of any additional Transition Policies after December 31, 1998, the requirement for independent fiduciary authorization of the acquisition or purchase of the Transition Policy in paragraph (b) no longer has any application.
(c)
Duty of disclosure
—(1)
In general.
An insurer shall furnish the information described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section to a plan fiduciary acting on behalf of a plan to which a Transition Policy has been issued. Paragraph (c)(2) of this section describes the style and format of such disclosure. Paragraph (c)(3) of this section describes the content of the initial disclosure. Paragraph (c)(4) of this section describes the information that must be disclosed by the insurer at least once per year for as long as the Transition Policy remains outstanding.
(2)
Style and format.
The disclosure required by this paragraph should be clear and concise and written in a manner calculated to be understood by a plan fiduciary, without relinquishing any of the substantive detail required by paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section. The information does not have to be organized in any particular order but should be presented in a manner which makes it easy to understand the operation of the Transition Policy.
(3)
Initial disclosure.
The insurer must provide to the plan, either as part of an amended policy, or as a separate written document, the disclosure information set forth in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. The disclosure must include all of the following information which is applicable to the Transition Policy:
(i) A description of the method by which any income and any expense of the insurer's general account are allocated to the policy during the term of the policy and upon its termination, including:
(A) A description of the method used by the insurer to determine the fees, charges, expenses or other amounts that are, or may be, assessed against the policyholder or deducted by the insurer from any accumulation fund under the policy, including the extent and frequency with which such fees, charges, expenses or other amounts may be modified by the insurance company;
(B) A description of the method by which the insurer determines the return to be credited to any accumulation fund under the policy, including a description of the method used to allocate income and expenses to lines of business, business segments, and policies within such lines of business and business segments, and a description of how any withdrawals, transfers, or payments will affect the amount of the return credited;
(C) A description of the rights which the policyholder or plan participants have to withdraw or transfer all or a
portion of any accumulation fund under the policy, or to apply the amount of a withdrawal to the purchase of guaranteed benefits or to the payment of benefits, and the terms on which such withdrawals or other applications of funds may be made, including a description of any charges, fees, credits, market value adjustments, or any other charges or adjustments, both positive and negative;
(D) A statement of the method used to calculate any charges, fees, credits or market value adjustments described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(C) of this section, and, upon the request of a plan fiduciary, the insurer must provide within 30 days of the request:
(
1
) The formula actually used to calculate the market value adjustment, if any, to be applied to the unallocated amount in the accumulation fund upon distribution of a lump sum payment to the policyholder, and
(
2
) The actual calculation, as of a specified date that is no earlier than the last contract anniversary preceding the date of the request, of the applicable market value adjustment, including a description of the specific variables used in the calculation, the value of each of the variables, and a general description of how the value of each of those variables was determined.
(
3
) If the formula is based on interest rate guarantees applicable to new contracts of the same class or classes, and the duration of the assets underlying the accumulation fund, the contract must describe the process by which those components are ascertained or obtained. If the formula is based on an interest rate implicit in an index of publicly traded obligations, the identity of the index, the manner in which it is used, and identification of the source or publication where any data used in the formula can be found, must be disclosed;
(ii) A statement describing the expense, income and benefit guarantees under the policy, including a description of the length of such guarantees, and of the insurer's right, if any, to modify or eliminate such guarantees;
(iii) A description of the rights of the parties to make or discontinue contributions under the policy, and of any restrictions (such as timing, minimum or maximum amounts, and penalties and grace periods for late payments) on the making of contributions under the policy, and the consequences of the discontinuance of contributions under the policy; and
(iv) A statement of how any policyholder or participant-initiated withdrawals are to be made: first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis, last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis, pro rata or another basis.
(4)
Annual disclosure.
At least annually and not later than 90 days following the period to which it relates, an insurer shall provide the following information to each plan to which a Transition Policy has been issued:
(i) The balance of any accumulation fund on the first day and last day of the period covered by the annual report;
(ii) Any deposits made to the accumulation fund during such annual period;
(iii) An itemized statement of all income attributed to the policy or added to the accumulation fund during the period, and a description of the method used by the insurer to determine the precise amount of income;
(iv) The actual rate of return credited to the accumulation fund under the policy during such period, stating whether the rate of return was calculated before or after deduction of expenses charged to the accumulation fund;
(v) Any other additions to the accumulation fund during such period;
(vi) An itemized statement of all fees, charges, expenses or other amounts assessed against the policy or deducted from the accumulation fund during the reporting year, and a description of the method used by the insurer to determine the precise amount of the fees, charges and other expenses;
(vii) An itemized statement of all benefits paid, including annuity purchases, to participants and beneficiaries from the accumulation fund;
(viii) The dates on which the additions or subtractions were credited to, or deducted from, the accumulation fund during such period;
(ix) A description, if applicable, of all transactions with affiliates which exceed 1 percent of group annuity reserves of the general account for the prior reporting year;
(x) A statement describing any expense, income and benefit guarantees under the policy, including a description of the length of such guarantees, and of the insurer's right, if any, to modify or eliminate such guarantees. However, the information on guarantees does not have to be provided annually if it was previously disclosed in the insurance policy and has not been modified since that time;
(xi) A good faith estimate of the amount that would be payable in a lump sum at the end of such period pursuant to the request of a policyholder for payment or transfer of amounts in the accumulation fund under the policy after the insurer deducts any applicable charges and makes any appropriate market value adjustments, upward or downward, under the terms of the policy. However, upon the request of a plan fiduciary, the insurer must provide within 30 days of the request the information contained in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(D) as of a specified date that is no earlier than the last contract anniversary preceding the date of the request; and
(xii) An explanation that the insurer will make available promptly upon request of a plan, copies of the following publicly available financial data or other publicly available reports relating to the financial condition of the insurer:
(A) National Association of Insurance Commissioners Statutory Annual Statement, with Exhibits, General Interrogatories, and Schedule D, Part 1A, Sections 1 and 2 and Schedule S—Part 3E;
(B) Rating agency reports on the financial strength and claims-paying ability of the insurer;
(C) Risk adjusted capital ratio, with a brief description of its derivation and significance, referring to the risk characteristics of both the assets and the liabilities of the insurer;
(D) Actuarial opinion of the insurer's Appointed Actuary certifying the adequacy of the insurer's reserves as required by New York State Insurance Department Regulation 126 and comparable regulations of other States; and
(E) The insurer's most recent SEC Form 10K and Form 10Q (stock companies only).
(d)
Alternative separate account arrangements
—(1)
In general.
An insurer must provide the plan fiduciary with the following additional information at the same time as the initial disclosure required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section:
(i) A statement explaining the extent to which alternative contract arrangements supported by assets of separate accounts of insurers are available to plans;
(ii) A statement as to whether there is a right under the policy to transfer funds to a separate account and the terms governing any such right; and
(iii) A statement explaining the extent to which general account contracts and separate account contracts of the insurer may pose differing risks to the plan.
(2) An insurer will be deemed to comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section if the disclosure provided to the plan includes the following statement:
a. Contractual arrangements supported by assets of separate accounts may pose differing risks to plans from contractual arrangements supported by assets of general accounts. Under a general account contract, the plan's contributions or premiums are placed in the insurer's general account and commingled with the insurer's corporate funds and assets (excluding separate accounts and special deposit funds). The insurance company combines in its general account premiums received from all of its lines of business. These premiums are pooled and invested by the insurer. General account assets in the aggregate support the insurer's obligations under all of its insurance contracts, including (but not limited to) its individual and group life, health, disability, and annuity
contracts. Experience rated general account policies may share in the experience of the general account through interest credits, dividends, or rate adjustments, but assets in the general account are not segregated for the exclusive benefit of any particular policy or obligation. General account assets are also available to the insurer for the conduct of its routine business activities, such as the payment of salaries, rent, other ordinary business expenses and dividends.
b. An insurance company separate account is a segregated fund which is not commingled with the insurer's general assets. Depending on the particular terms of the separate account contract, income, expenses, gains and losses associated with the assets allocated to a separate account may be credited to or charged against the separate account without regard to other income, expenses, gains, or losses of the insurance company, and the investment results passed through directly to the policyholders. While most, if not all, general account investments are maintained at book value, separate account investments are normally maintained at market value, which can fluctuate according to market conditions. In large measure, the risks associated with a separate account contract depend on the particular assets in the separate account.
c. The plan's legal rights vary under general and separate account contracts. In general, an insurer is subject to ERISA's fiduciary responsibility provisions with respect to the assets of a separate account (other than a separate account registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940) to the extent that the investment performance of such assets is passed directly through to the plan policyholders. ERISA requires insurers, in administering separate account assets, to act solely in the interest of the plan's participants and beneficiaries; prohibits self-dealing and conflicts of interest; and requires insurers to adhere to a prudent standard of care. In contrast, ERISA generally imposes less stringent standards in the administration of general account contracts which were issued on or before December 31, 1998.
d. On the other hand, State insurance regulation is typically more restrictive with respect to general accounts than separate accounts. However, State insurance regulation may not provide the same level of protection to plan policyholders as ERISA regulation. In addition, insurance company general account policies often include various guarantees under which the insurer assumes risks relating to the funding and distribution of benefits. Insurers do not usually provide any guarantees with respect to the investment returns on assets held in separate accounts. Of course, the extent of any guarantees from any general account or separate account contract will depend upon the specific policy terms.
e. Finally, separate accounts and general accounts pose differing risks in the event of the insurer's insolvency. In the event of insolvency, funds in the general account are available to meet the claims of the insurer's general creditors, after payment of amounts due under certain priority claims, including amounts owed to its policyholders. Funds held in a separate account as reserves for its policy obligations, however, may be protected from the claims of creditors other than the policyholders participating in the separate account. Whether separate account funds will be granted this protection will depend upon the terms of the applicable policies and the provisions of any applicable laws in effect at the time of insolvency.
(e)
Termination procedures.
Within 90 days of written notice by a policyholder to an insurer, the insurer must permit the policyholder to exercise the right to terminate or discontinue the policy and to elect to receive without penalty either:
(1) A lump sum payment representing all unallocated amounts in the accumulation fund. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(1), the term penalty does not include a market value adjustment (as defined in paragraph (h)(7)of this section) or the recovery of costs actually incurred which would have been recovered by the insurer but for the termination or discontinuance of the policy, including any unliquidated acquisition expenses, to the extent not previously recovered by the insurer; or
(2) A book value payment of all unallocated amounts in the accumulation fund under the policy in approximately equal annual installments, over a period of no longer than 10 years, together with interest computed at an annual rate which is no less than the annual rate which was credited to the accumulation fund under the policy as of the date of the contract termination or discontinuance, minus 1 percentage point. Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, the insurer may defer, for a period not to exceed 180 days, amounts required to be paid to a policyholder under this paragraph for any period of time during which regular banking activities are suspended by State or federal authorities, a national securities exchange is closed for trading (except for normal holiday closings), or the Securities and Exchange Commission has determined that a state of emergency exists which may make such determination and payment impractical.
(f)
Insurer-initiated amendments.
In the event the insurer makes an insurer-initiated amendment (as defined in paragraph (h)(8) of this section), the insurer must provide written notice to the plan at least 60 days prior to the effective date of the insurer-initiated amendment. The notice must contain a complete description of the amendment and must inform the plan of its right to terminate or discontinue the policy and withdraw all unallocated funds without penalty by sending a written request within such 60 day period to the name and address contained in the notice. The plan must be offered the election to receive either a lump sum or an installment payment as described in paragraph (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. An insurer-initiated amendment shall not apply to a contract if the plan fiduciary exercises its right to terminate or discontinue the contract within such 60 day period and to receive a lump sum or installment payment.
(g)
Prudence.
An insurer shall manage those assets of the insurer which are assets of such insurer's general account (irrespective of whether any such assets are plan assets) with the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims, taking into account all obligations supported by such enterprise. This prudence standard applies to the conduct of all insurers with respect to policies issued to plans on or before December 31, 1998, and differs from the prudence standard set forth in section 404(a)(1)(B) of the Act. Under the prudence standard provided in this paragraph, prudence must be determined by reference to all of the obligations supported by the general account, not just the obligations owed to plan policyholders. The more stringent standard of prudence set forth in section 404(a)(1)(B) of the Act continues to apply to any obligations which insurers may have as fiduciaries which do not arise from the management of general account assets, as well as to insurers' management of plan assets maintained in separate accounts. The terms of this section do not modify or reduce the fiduciary obligations applicable to insurers in connection with policies issued after December 31, 1998, which are supported by general account assets, including the standard of prudence under section 404(a)(1)(B) of the Act.
(h)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) An
affiliate
of an insurer means:
(i) Any person, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the insurer,
(ii) Any officer of, director of, 5 percent or more partner in, or highly compensated employee (earning 5 percent or more of the yearly wages of the insurer) of, such insurer or of any person described in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section including in the case of an insurer, an insurance agent or broker thereof (whether or not such person is a common law employee) if such agent or broker is an employee described in this paragraph or if the gross income received by such agent or broker from such insurer exceeds 5 percent of such agent's gross income from all sources for the year, and
(iii) Any corporation, partnership, or unincorporated enterprise of which a person described in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)
of this section is an officer, director, or a 5 percent or more partner.
(2) The term
control
means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual.
(3) The term
guaranteed benefit policy
means a policy described in section 401(b)(2)(B) of the Act and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(4) The term
insurer
means an insurer as described in section 401(b)(2)(A) of the Act.
(5) The term
accumulation fund
means the aggregate net considerations (
i.e.,
gross considerations less all deductions from such considerations) credited to the Transition Policy plus all additional amounts, including interest and dividends, credited to such Transition Policy less partial withdrawals, benefit payments and less all charges and fees imposed against this accumulated amount under the Transition Policy other than surrender charges and market value adjustments.
(6) The term
Transition Policy
means:
(i) A policy or contract of insurance (other than a guaranteed benefit policy) that is issued by an insurer to, or on behalf of, an employee benefit plan on or before December 31, 1998, and which is supported by the assets of the insurer's general account.
(ii) A policy will not fail to be a Transition Policy merely because the policy is amended or modified:
(A) To comply with the requirements of section 401(c) of the Act and this section; or
(B) Pursuant to a merger, acquisition, demutualization, conversion, or reorganization authorized by applicable State law, provided that the premiums, policy guarantees, and the other terms and conditions of the policy remain the same, except that a membership interest in a mutual insurance company may be eliminated from the policy in exchange for separate consideration (e.g., shares of stock or policy credits).
(7) For purposes of this section, the term
market value adjustment
means an adjustment to the book value of the accumulation fund to accurately reflect the effect on the value of the accumulation fund of its liquidation in the prevailing market for fixed income obligations, taking into account the future cash flows that were anticipated under the policy. An adjustment is a
market value adjustment
within the meaning of this definition only if the insurer has determined the amount of the adjustment pursuant to a method which was previously disclosed to the policyholder in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(i)(D) of this section, and the method permits both upward and downward adjustments to the book value of the accumulation fund.
(8) The term
insurer-initiated amendment
is defined in paragraphs (h)(8)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section as:
(i) An amendment to a Transition Policy made by an insurer pursuant to a unilateral right to amend the policy terms that would have a material adverse effect on the policyholder; or
(ii) Any of the following unilateral changes in the insurer's conduct or practices with respect to the policyholder or the accumulation fund under the policy that result in a material reduction of existing or future benefits under the policy, a material reduction in the value of the policy or a material increase in the cost of financing the plan or plan benefits:
(A) A change in the methodology for assessing fees, expenses, or other charges against the accumulation fund or the policyholder;
(B) A change in the methodology used for allocating income between lines of business, or product classes within a line of business;
(C) A change in the methodology used for determining the rate of return to be credited to the accumulation fund under the policy;
(D) A change in the methodology used for determining the amount of any fees, charges, expenses, or market value adjustments applicable to the accumulation fund under the policy in connection with the termination of the contract or withdrawal from the accumulation fund;
(E) A change in the dividend class to which the policy or contract is assigned;
(F) A change in the policyholder's rights in connection with the termination of the policy, withdrawal of funds or the purchase of annuities for plan participants; and
(G) A change in the annuity purchase rates guaranteed under the terms of the contract or policy, unless the new rates are more favorable for the policyholder.
(iii) For purposes of this definition, an insurer-initiated amendment is material if a prudent fiduciary could reasonably conclude that the amendment should be considered in determining how or whether to exercise any rights with respect to the policy, including termination rights.
(iv) For purposes of this definition, the following amendments or changes are not insurer-initiated amendments:
(A) Any amendment or change which is made with the affirmative consent of the policyholder;
(B) Any amendment or change which is made in order to comply with the requirements of section 401(c) of the Act and this section; or
(C) Any amendment or change which is made pursuant to a merger, acquisition, demutualization, conversion, or reorganization authorized by applicable State law, provided that the premiums, policy guarantees, and the other terms and conditions of the policy remain the same, except that a membership interest in a mutual insurance company may be eliminated from the policy in exchange for separate consideration (e.g., shares of stock or policy credits).
(i)
Limitation on liability.
(1) No person shall be subject to liability under Parts 1 and 4 of Title I of the Act or section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for conduct which occurred prior to the applicability dates of the regulation on the basis of a claim that the assets of an insurer (other than plan assets held in a separate account) constitute plan assets. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (i)(1), this section shall not:
(i) Apply to an action brought by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to paragraphs (2) or (5) of section 502(a) of ERISA for a breach of fiduciary responsibility which would also constitute a violation of Federal or State criminal law;
(ii) Preclude the application of any Federal criminal law; or
(iii) Apply to any civil action commenced before November 7, 1995.
(2) Nothing in this section relieves any person from any State law regulating insurance which imposes additional obligations or duties upon insurers to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this section. Therefore, nothing in this section should be construed to preclude a State from requiring insurers to make additional disclosures to policyholders, including plans. Nor does this section prohibit a State from imposing additional substantive requirements with respect to the management of general accounts or from otherwise regulating the relationship between the policyholder and the insurer to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this section.
(3) Nothing in this section precludes any claim against an insurer or other person for violations of the Act which do not require a finding that the underlying assets of a general account constitute plan assets, regardless of whether the violation relates to a Transition Policy.
(4) If the requirements in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section are not met with respect to a plan that has purchased or acquired a Transition Policy, and the insurer has not cured the non-compliance through satisfaction of the requirements in paragraph (i)(5) of this section, the plan's assets include an undivided interest in the underlying assets of the insurer's general account for that period of time for which the requirements are not met. However, an insurer's failure to comply with the requirements of this section with respect to any particular Transition Policy will not result in the underlying assets of the general account constituting plan assets with respect to other Transition Policies if the insurer is otherwise in compliance with the requirements contained in this section.
(5) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(2) and (i)(4) of this section, a plan's assets will not include an undivided interest in the underlying assets of the insurer's general account if the insurer made reasonable and good faith attempts at compliance with each of the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, and meets each of the following conditions:
(i) The insurer has in place written procedures that are reasonably designed to assure compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, including procedures reasonably designed to detect any instances of non-compliance.
(ii) No later than 60 days following the earlier of the insurer's detection of an instance of non-compliance or the receipt of written notice of non-compliance from the plan, the insurer complies with the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section. If the insurer has failed to pay a plan the amounts required under paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section within 90 days of receiving written notice of termination or discontinuance of the policy, the insurer must make all corrections and adjustments necessary to restore to the plan the full amounts that the plan would have received but for the insurer's non-compliance within the applicable 60 day period; and
(iii) The insurer makes the plan whole for any losses resulting from the non-compliance as follows:
(A) If the insurer has failed to comply with the disclosure or notice requirements set forth in paragraphs (c), (d) and (f) of this section, then the insurer must make the plan whole for any losses resulting from its non-compliance within the earlier of 60 days of detection by the insurer or sixty days following the receipt of written notice from the plan; and
(B) If the insurer has failed to pay a plan any amounts required under paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section within 90 days of receiving written notice of termination or discontinuance of the policy, the insurer must pay to the plan interest on any amounts restored pursuant to paragraph (i)(5)(ii) of this section at the “underpayment rate” as set forth in 26 U.S.C. sections 6621 and 6622. Such interest must be paid within the earlier of 60 days of detection by the insurer or sixty days following receipt of written notice of non-compliance from the plan.
(j)
Applicability dates
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (j)(2) through (4) of this section, this section is applicable on July 5, 2001.
(2) Paragraph (c) relating to initial disclosures and paragraph (d) relating to separate account disclosures are applicable on July 5, 2000.
(3) The first annual disclosure required under paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall be provided to each plan not later than 18 months following January 5, 2000.
(4) Paragraph (f), relating to insurer-initiated amendments, is applicable on January 5, 2000.
(k)
Effective date.
This section is effective January 5, 2000.
[65 FR 639, Jan. 5, 2000]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 28006, July 1, 2025, § 2550.401c-1 was removed, effective Sept. 2, 2025.
§ 2550.403a-1
Establishment of trust.
(a)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in § 403b-1, all assets of an employee benefit plan shall be held in trust by one or more trustees pursuant to a written trust instrument.
(b)
Specific applications.
(1) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section will not fail to be satisfied merely because securities of a plan are held in the name of a nominee or in street name, provided such securities are held on behalf of the plan by:
(i) A bank or trust company that is subject to supervision by the United States or a State, or a nominee of such bank or trust company;
(ii) A broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or a nominee of such broker or dealer; or
(iii) A “clearing agency,” as defined in section 3(a)(23) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or its nominee.
(2) Where a corporation described in section 501(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code holds property on behalf of a plan, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied with respect to such property if all the stock of such corporation is held in trust on behalf of the plan by one or more trustees.
(3) If the assets of an entity in which a plan invests include plan assets by reason of the plan's investment in the entity, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied with respect to such investment if the indicia of ownership of the plan's interest in the entity are held in trust on behalf of the plan by one or more trustees.
(c)
Requirements concerning trustees.
The trustee or trustees referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be either named in the trust instrument or in the plan instrument described in section 402(a) of the Act, or appointed by a person who is a named fiduciary (within the meaning of section 402(a)(2) of the Act). Upon acceptance of being named or appointed, the trustee or trustees shall have exclusive authority and discretion to manage and control the assets of the plan, except to the extent that:
(1) The plan instrument or the trust instrument expressly provides that the trustee or trustees are subject to the direction of a named fiduciary who is not a trustee, in which case the trustees shall be subject to the proper directions of such fiduciary which are made in accordance with the terms of the plan and which are not contrary to the provisions of title I of the Act of chapter XXV of this title, or
(2) Authority to manage, acquire or dispose of assets of the plan is delegated to one or more investment managers (within the meaning of section 3(38) of the Act) pursuant to section 402(c)(3) of the Act.
[47 FR 21247, May 18, 1982]
§ 2550.403b-1
Exemptions from trust requirement.
(a)
Statutory exemptions.
The requirements of section 403(a) of the Act and section 403a-1 shall not apply—
(1) To any assets of a plan which consist of insurance contracts or policies issued by an insurance company qualified to do business in a State;
(2) To any assets of such an insurance company or any assets of a plan which are held by such an insurance company;
(3) To a plan—
(i) Some or all of the participants of which are employees described in section 401(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954; or
(ii) Which consists of one or more individual retirement accounts described in section 408 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. To the extent that such plan's assets are held in one or more custodial accounts which qualify under section 401(f) or 408(h) of such Code, whichever is applicable;
(4) To a contract established and maintained under section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 to the extent that the assets of the contract are held in one or more custodial accounts pursuant to section 403(b)(7) of such Code.
(5) To any plan, fund or program under which an employer, all of whose stock is directly or indirectly owned by employees, former employees or their beneficiaries, proposes through an unfunded arrangement to compensate retired employees for benefits which were forfeited by such employees under a pension plan maintained by a former employer prior to the date such pension plan became subject to the Act.
[47 FR 21247, May 18, 1982]
§ 2550.404a-1
Investment duties.
(a)
In general.
Sections 404(a)(1)(A) and 404(a)(1)(B) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA or the Act) provide, in part, that a fiduciary shall discharge that person's duties with respect to the plan solely in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries; for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants and their beneficiaries and defraying reasonable expenses of administering the plan; and with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims.
(b)
Investment prudence duties.
(1) With regard to the consideration of an investment or investment course of action taken by a fiduciary of an employee benefit plan pursuant to the fiduciary's investment duties, the requirements of section 404(a)(1)(B) of the Act set forth in paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied if the fiduciary:
(i) Has given appropriate consideration to those facts and circumstances that, given the scope of such fiduciary's investment duties, the fiduciary knows or should know are relevant to the particular investment or investment course of action involved, including the role the investment or investment course of action plays in that
portion of the plan's investment portfolio or menu with respect to which the fiduciary has investment duties; and
(ii) Has acted accordingly.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, “appropriate consideration” shall include, but is not necessarily limited to:
(i) A determination by the fiduciary that the particular investment or investment course of action is reasonably designed, as part of the portfolio (or, where applicable, that portion of the plan portfolio with respect to which the fiduciary has investment duties) or menu, to further the purposes of the plan, taking into consideration the risk of loss and the opportunity for gain (or other return) associated with the investment or investment course of action compared to the opportunity for gain (or other return) associated with reasonably available alternatives with similar risks; and
(ii) In the case of employee benefit plans other than participant-directed individual account plans, consideration of the following factors as they relate to such portion of the portfolio:
(A) The composition of the portfolio with regard to diversification;
(B) The liquidity and current return of the portfolio relative to the anticipated cash flow requirements of the plan; and
(C) The projected return of the portfolio relative to the funding objectives of the plan.
(3) An investment manager appointed, pursuant to the provisions of section 402(c)(3) of the Act, to manage all or part of the assets of a plan, may, for purposes of compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, rely on, and act upon the basis of, information pertaining to the plan provided by or at the direction of the appointing fiduciary, if:
(i) Such information is provided for the stated purpose of assisting the manager in the performance of the manager's investment duties; and
(ii) The manager does not know and has no reason to know that the information is incorrect.
(4) A fiduciary's determination with respect to an investment or investment course of action must be based on factors that the fiduciary reasonably determines are relevant to a risk and return analysis, using appropriate investment horizons consistent with the plan's investment objectives and taking into account the funding policy of the plan established pursuant to section 402(b)(1) of ERISA. Risk and return factors may include the economic effects of climate change and other environmental, social, or governance factors on the particular investment or investment course of action. Whether any particular consideration is a risk-return factor depends on the individual facts and circumstances. The weight given to any factor by a fiduciary should appropriately reflect a reasonable assessment of its impact on risk-return.
(c)
Investment loyalty duties.
(1) A fiduciary may not subordinate the interests of the participants and beneficiaries in their retirement income or financial benefits under the plan to other objectives, and may not sacrifice investment return or take on additional investment risk to promote benefits or goals unrelated to interests of the participants and beneficiaries in their retirement income or financial benefits under the plan.
(2) If a fiduciary prudently concludes that competing investments, or competing investment courses of action, equally serve the financial interests of the plan over the appropriate time horizon, the fiduciary is not prohibited from selecting the investment, or investment course of action, based on collateral benefits other than investment returns. A fiduciary may not, however, accept expected reduced returns or greater risks to secure such additional benefits.
(3) The plan fiduciary of a participant-directed individual account plan does not violate the duty of loyalty under paragraph (c)(1) of this section solely because the fiduciary takes into account participants' preferences in a manner consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Proxy voting and exercise of shareholder rights.
(1) The fiduciary duty to manage plan assets that are shares of stock includes the management of shareholder rights appurtenant to those shares, such as the right to vote proxies.
(2)(i) When deciding whether to exercise shareholder rights and when exercising such rights, including the voting of proxies, fiduciaries must carry out their duties prudently and solely in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries and for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants and beneficiaries and defraying the reasonable expenses of administering the plan.
(ii) When deciding whether to exercise shareholder rights and when exercising shareholder rights, plan fiduciaries must:
(A) Act solely in accordance with the economic interest of the plan and its participants and beneficiaries, in a manner consistent with paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(B) Consider any costs involved;
(C) Not subordinate the interests of the participants and beneficiaries in their retirement income or financial benefits under the plan to any other objective;
(D) Evaluate relevant facts that form the basis for any particular proxy vote or other exercise of shareholder rights; and
(E) Exercise prudence and diligence in the selection and monitoring of persons, if any, selected to exercise shareholder rights or otherwise advise on or assist with exercises of shareholder rights, such as providing research and analysis, recommendations regarding proxy votes, administrative services with voting proxies, and recordkeeping and reporting services.
(iii) A fiduciary may not adopt a practice of following the recommendations of a proxy advisory firm or other service provider without a determination that such firm or service provider's proxy voting guidelines are consistent with the fiduciary's obligations described in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(3)(i) In deciding whether to vote a proxy pursuant to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, fiduciaries may adopt proxy voting policies providing that the authority to vote a proxy shall be exercised pursuant to specific parameters prudently designed to serve the plan's interests in providing benefits to participants and their beneficiaries and defraying reasonable expenses of administering the plan.
(ii) Plan fiduciaries shall periodically review proxy voting policies adopted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.
(iii) No proxy voting policies adopted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section shall preclude submitting a proxy vote when the fiduciary prudently determines that the matter being voted upon is expected to have a significant effect on the value of the investment or the investment performance of the plan's portfolio (or investment performance of assets under management in the case of an investment manager) after taking into account the costs involved, or refraining from voting when the fiduciary prudently determines that the matter being voted upon is not expected to have such an effect after taking into account the costs involved.
(4)(i)(A) The responsibility for exercising shareholder rights lies exclusively with the plan trustee except to the extent that either:
(
1
) The trustee is subject to the directions of a named fiduciary pursuant to ERISA section 403(a)(1); or
(
2
) The power to manage, acquire, or dispose of the relevant assets has been delegated by a named fiduciary to one or more investment managers pursuant to ERISA section 403(a)(2).
(B) Where the authority to manage plan assets has been delegated to an investment manager pursuant to ERISA section 403(a)(2), the investment manager has exclusive authority to vote proxies or exercise other shareholder rights appurtenant to such plan assets in accordance with this section, except to the extent the plan, trust document, or investment management agreement expressly provides that the responsible named fiduciary has reserved to itself (or to another named fiduciary so authorized by the plan document) the right to direct a plan trustee regarding the exercise or management of some or all of such shareholder rights.
(ii) An investment manager of a pooled investment vehicle that holds assets of more than one employee benefit plan may be subject to an investment policy statement that conflicts
with the policy of another plan. Compliance with ERISA section 404(a)(1)(D) requires the investment manager to reconcile, insofar as possible, the conflicting policies (assuming compliance with each policy would be consistent with ERISA section 404(a)(1)(D)). In the case of proxy voting, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the investment manager must vote (or abstain from voting) the relevant proxies to reflect such policies in proportion to each plan's economic interest in the pooled investment vehicle. Such an investment manager may, however, develop an investment policy statement consistent with Title I of ERISA and this section, and require participating plans to accept the investment manager's investment policy statement, including any proxy voting policy, before they are allowed to invest. In such cases, a fiduciary must assess whether the investment manager's investment policy statement and proxy voting policy are consistent with Title I of ERISA and this section before deciding to retain the investment manager.
(5) This section does not apply to voting, tender, and similar rights with respect to shares of stock that are passed through pursuant to the terms of an individual account plan to participants and beneficiaries with accounts holding such shares.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
investment duties
means any duties imposed upon, or assumed or undertaken by, a person in connection with the investment of plan assets which make or will make such person a fiduciary of an employee benefit plan or which are performed by such person as a fiduciary of an employee benefit plan as defined in section 3(21)(A)(i) or (ii) of the Act.
(2) The term
investment course of action
means any series or program of investments or actions related to a fiduciary's performance of the fiduciary's investment duties, and includes the selection of an investment fund as a plan investment, or in the case of an individual account plan, a designated investment alternative under the plan.
(3) The term
plan
means an employee benefit plan to which Title I of the Act applies.
(4) The term
designated investment alternative
means any investment alternative designated by the plan into which participants and beneficiaries may direct the investment of assets held in, or contributed to, their individual accounts. The term “designated investment alternative” shall not include “brokerage windows,” “self directed brokerage accounts,” or similar plan arrangements that enable participants and beneficiaries to select investments beyond those designated by the plan.
(f)
Severability.
If any provision of this section is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, or stayed pending further agency action, the provision shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision shall be severable from this section and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
(g)
Applicability date.
(1) Except for paragraphs (d)(2)(iii) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section, this section shall apply in its entirety to all investments made and investment courses of action taken after January 30, 2023.
(2) Paragraphs (d)(2)(iii) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section apply on December 1, 2023.
[87 FR 73884, Dec. 1, 2022]
§ 2550.404a-2
Safe harbor for automatic rollovers to individual retirement plans.
(a)
In general.
(1) Pursuant to section 657(c) of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, Public Law 107-16, June 7, 2001, 115 Stat. 38, this section provides a safe harbor under which a fiduciary of an employee pension benefit plan subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.,
will be deemed to have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties under section 404(a) of the Act in connection with an automatic rollover of a mandatory distribution described in section 401(a)(31)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). This section also provides a safe harbor for certain other
mandatory distributions not described in section 401(a)(31)(B) of the Code.
(2) The standards set forth in this section apply solely for purposes of determining whether a fiduciary meets the requirements of this safe harbor. Such standards are not intended to be the exclusive means by which a fiduciary might satisfy his or her responsibilities under the Act with respect to rollovers of mandatory distributions described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(b)
Safe harbor.
A fiduciary that meets the conditions of paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of this section is deemed to have satisfied his or her duties under section 404(a) of the Act with respect to both the selection of an individual retirement plan provider and the investment of funds in connection with the rollover of mandatory distributions described in those paragraphs to an individual retirement plan, within the meaning of section 7701(a)(37) of the Code.
(c)
Conditions.
With respect to an automatic rollover of a mandatory distribution described in section 401(a)(31)(B) of the Code, a fiduciary shall qualify for the safe harbor described in paragraph (b) of this section if:
(1) The present value of the nonforfeitable accrued benefit, as determined under section 411(a)(11) of the Code, does not exceed the maximum amount under section 401(a)(31)(B) of the Code;
(2) The mandatory distribution is to an individual retirement plan within the meaning of section 7701(a)(37) of the Code;
(3) In connection with the distribution of rolled-over funds to an individual retirement plan, the fiduciary enters into a written agreement with an individual retirement plan provider that provides:
(i) The rolled-over funds shall be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return, whether or not such return is guaranteed, consistent with liquidity;
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the investment product selected for the rolled-over funds shall seek to maintain, over the term of the investment, the dollar value that is equal to the amount invested in the product by the individual retirement plan;
(iii) The investment product selected for the rolled-over funds shall be offered by a state or federally regulated financial institution, which shall be: A bank or savings association, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a credit union, the member accounts of which are insured within the meaning of section 101(7) of the Federal Credit Union Act; an insurance company, the products of which are protected by State guaranty associations; or an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(iv) All fees and expenses attendant to an individual retirement plan, including investments of such plan, (e.g., establishment charges, maintenance fees, investment expenses, termination costs and surrender charges) shall not exceed the fees and expenses charged by the individual retirement plan provider for comparable individual retirement plans established for reasons other than the receipt of a rollover distribution subject to the provisions of section 401(a)(31)(B) of the Code; and
(v) The participant on whose behalf the fiduciary makes an automatic rollover shall have the right to enforce the terms of the contractual agreement establishing the individual retirement plan, with regard to his or her rolled-over funds, against the individual retirement plan provider.
(4) Participants have been furnished a summary plan description, or a summary of material modifications, that describes the plan's automatic rollover provisions effectuating the requirements of section 401(a)(31)(B) of the Code, including an explanation that the mandatory distribution will be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return and liquidity, a statement indicating how fees and expenses attendant to the individual retirement plan will be allocated (
i.e.,
the extent to which expenses will be borne by the account holder alone or shared with the distributing plan or plan sponsor), and the name, address and phone number of a
plan contact (to the extent not otherwise provided in the summary plan description or summary of material modifications) for further information concerning the plan's automatic rollover provisions, the individual retirement plan provider and the fees and expenses attendant to the individual retirement plan; and
(5) Both the fiduciary's selection of an individual retirement plan and the investment of funds would not result in a prohibited transaction under section 406 of the Act, unless such actions are exempted from the prohibited transaction provisions by a prohibited transaction exemption issued pursuant to section 408(a) of the Act.
(d)
Mandatory distributions of $1,000 or less.
A fiduciary shall qualify for the protection afforded by the safe harbor described in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a mandatory distribution of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or less described in section 411(a)(11) of the Code, provided there is no affirmative distribution election by the participant and the fiduciary makes a rollover distribution of such amount into an individual retirement plan on behalf of such participant in accordance with the conditions described in paragraph (c) of this section, without regard to the fact that such rollover is not described in section 401(a)(31)(B) of the Code.
(e)
Effective date.
This section shall be effective and shall apply to any rollover of a mandatory distribution made on or after March 28, 2005.
[69 FR 58028, Sept. 28, 2004]
§ 2550.404a-3
Safe harbor for distributions from terminated individual account plans.
(a)
General.
(1) This section provides a safe harbor under which a fiduciary (including a qualified termination administrator, within the meaning of § 2578.1(g) or (j)(3) of this chapter) of a terminated individual account plan, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, will be deemed to have satisfied its duties under section 404(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.,
in connection with a distribution described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) This section shall apply to an individual account plan only if—
(i) In the case of an individual account plan that is an abandoned plan within the meaning of § 2578.1 of this chapter, such plan was intended to be maintained as a tax-qualified retirement plan in accordance with the requirements of section 401(a) or 403(a), or as a tax deferred annuity plan in accordance with section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Code); or
(ii) In the case of any other individual account plan, such plan is maintained in accordance with the requirements of section 401(a), 403(a), or 403(b) of the Code at the time of the distribution.
(3) The standards set forth in this section apply solely for purposes of determining whether a fiduciary meets the requirements of this safe harbor. Such standards are not intended to be the exclusive means by which a fiduciary might satisfy their responsibilities under the Act with respect to making distributions described in this section.
(b)
Distributions.
This section shall apply to a distribution from a terminated individual account plan if, in connection with such distribution:
(1) The participant or beneficiary, on whose behalf the distribution will be made, was furnished notice in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section or, in the case of an abandoned plan, § 2578.1(d)(2)(vi) of this chapter, and
(2) The participant or beneficiary failed to elect a form of distribution within 30 days of the furnishing of the notice described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Safe harbor.
A fiduciary that meets the conditions of paragraph (d) of this section shall, with respect to a distribution described in paragraph (b) of this section, be deemed to have satisfied its duties under section 404(a) of the Act with respect to the distribution of benefits, selection of a transferee entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, and the investment of funds in connection with the distribution.
(d)
Conditions.
A fiduciary shall qualify for the safe harbor described in paragraph (c) of this section if:
(1) The distribution described in paragraph (b) of this section is made to any of the following transferee entities—
(i) To an individual retirement plan within the meaning of section 7701(a)(37) of the Code;
(ii) In the case of a distribution on behalf of a designated beneficiary (as defined by section 401(a)(9)(E) of the Code) who is not the surviving spouse of the deceased participant, to an inherited individual retirement plan (within the meaning of section 402(c)(11) of the Code) established to receive the distribution on behalf of the nonspouse beneficiary;
(iii) In the case of a distribution by a qualified termination administrator (other than a bankruptcy trustee described in § 2578.1(j)(3) of this chapter or an eligible designee described in § 2578.1(j)(4)(ii) of this chapter) with respect to which the amount to be distributed is $1,000 or less and that amount is less than the minimum amount required to be invested in an individual retirement plan product offered by the qualified termination administrator to the public at the time of the distribution, to:
(A) An interest-bearing federally insured bank or savings association account in the name of the participant or beneficiary,
(B) The unclaimed property fund of the State in which the participant's or beneficiary's last known address is located, or
(C) An individual retirement plan (described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section) offered by a financial institution other than the qualified termination administrator to the public at the time of the distribution; or
(iv) In the case of a distribution by a bankruptcy trustee as described in § 2578.1(j)(3) of this chapter or an eligible designee as described in § 2578.1(j)(4)(ii) of this chapter with respect to which the amount to be distributed is $1,000 or less and such bankruptcy trustee or eligible designee, after reasonable and good faith efforts, is unable to locate an individual retirement plan provider who will accept the distribution, to either distribution option described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(v) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section—
(A) The qualified termination administrator may disregard the $1,000 threshold therein if the qualified termination administrator reasonably and in good faith finds that—
(
1
) The participant is deceased;
(
2
) The designated beneficiary or beneficiaries are deceased or unable to be identified based on records located and updated pursuant to § 2578.1(d)(2)(i) of this chapter;
(
3
) The estate of the participant is not the designated beneficiary; and
(
4
) The qualified termination administrator has no actual knowledge of any claims by any person to all or part of the deceased participant's account.
(B) If the estate of the participant is the designated beneficiary, the qualified termination administrator may disregard the $1,000 threshold therein if the qualified termination administrator reasonably and in good faith finds that—
(
1
) An estate does not exist or cannot be found;
(
2
) The qualified termination administrator has no actual knowledge of any claims by any person to all or part of the deceased participant's account; and
(
3
) The qualified termination administrator is unable to establish an individual retirement plan for the benefit of the estate of the participant.
(C) A summary of the pertinent findings made in paragraph (d)(1)(v)(A) or (B) of this section must be included in the notice described in § 2578.1(d)(2)(ix)(G) (the Final Notice) of this chapter, including the basis for the findings (including the name and last known address of the beneficiary, if known) and an attestation that the qualified termination administrator has the full name and last known address of the deceased participant.
(2) Except with respect to distributions to State unclaimed property funds (described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section), the fiduciary enters into a written agreement with the transferee entity which provides:
(i) The distributed funds shall be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return, whether or not such return is guaranteed, consistent with liquidity (except that distributions under paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A) of this section to a bank or savings account are not required to be invested in such a product);
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the investment product shall—
(A) Seek to maintain, over the term of the investment, the dollar value that is equal to the amount invested in the product by the individual retirement plan (described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section), and
(B) Be offered by a State or federally regulated financial institution, which shall be: a bank or savings association, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a credit union, the member accounts of which are insured within the meaning of section 101(7) of the Federal Credit Union Act; an insurance company, the products of which are protected by State guaranty associations; or an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(iii) All fees and expenses attendant to the transferee plan (described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section) or account (described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A) of this section), including investments of such plan, (
e.g.,
establishment charges, maintenance fees, investment expenses, termination costs and surrender charges), shall not exceed the fees and expenses charged by the provider of the plan or account for comparable plans or accounts established for reasons other than the receipt of a distribution under this section; and
(iv) The participant or beneficiary on whose behalf the fiduciary makes a distribution shall have the right to enforce the terms of the contractual agreement establishing the plan (described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section) or account (described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A) of this section), with regard to their transferred account balance, against the plan or account provider.
(3) Both the fiduciary's selection of a transferee plan (described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section) or account (described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A) of this section) and the investment of funds would not result in a prohibited transaction under section 406 of the Act, or if so prohibited such actions are exempted from the prohibited transaction provisions by a prohibited transaction exemption issued pursuant to section 408(a) of the Act.
(e)
Notice to participants and beneficiaries
—(1)
Content.
Each participant or beneficiary of the plan shall be furnished a notice written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and containing the following:
(i) The name of the plan;
(ii) A statement of the account balance, the date on which the amount was calculated, and, if relevant, an indication that the amount to be distributed may be more or less than the amount stated in the notice, depending on investment gains or losses and the administrative cost of terminating the plan and distributing benefits;
(iii) A description of the distribution options available under the plan and a request that the participant or beneficiary elect a form of distribution and inform the plan administrator (or other fiduciary) identified in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section of that election;
(iv) A statement explaining that, if a participant or beneficiary fails to make an election within 30 days from receipt of the notice, the plan will distribute the account balance of the participant or beneficiary to an individual retirement plan (
i.e.,
individual retirement account or annuity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section) and the account balance will be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return and liquidity;
(v) A statement explaining what fees, if any, will be paid from the participant or beneficiary's individual retirement plan (described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section), if such information is known at the time of the furnishing of this notice;
(vi) The name, address and phone number of the individual retirement plan (described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section) provider, if such information is known at the time of the furnishing of this notice; and
(vii) The name, address, and telephone number of the plan administrator (or other fiduciary) from whom a participant or beneficiary may obtain additional information concerning the termination.
(2)
Manner of furnishing notice.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a notice shall be furnished to each participant or beneficiary in accordance with the requirements of § 2520.104b-1(b)(1) of this chapter to the last known address of the participant or beneficiary; and
(ii) In the case of a notice that is returned to the plan as undeliverable, the plan fiduciary shall, consistent with its duties under section 404(a)(1) of the Act, take steps to locate the participant or beneficiary and provide notice prior to making the distribution. If, after such steps, the fiduciary is unsuccessful in locating and furnishing notice to a participant or beneficiary, the participant or beneficiary shall be deemed to have been furnished the notice and to have failed to make an election within 30 days for purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(f)
Model notice.
The appendix to this part contains a model notice that may be used to discharge the notification requirements under this section for plans other than abandoned plans. Use of the model notice is not mandatory. However, use of an appropriately completed model notice will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section. For a model notice for abandoned plans, see Appendix D to part 2578.
[89 FR 43657, May 17, 2024]
§ 2550.404a-4
Selection of annuity providers—safe harbor for individual account plans.
(a)
Scope.
(1) This section establishes a safe harbor for satisfying the fiduciary duties under section 404(a)(1)(B) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 29 U.S.C. 1104-1114, in selecting an annuity provider and contract for benefit distributions from an individual account plan. For guidance concerning the selection of an annuity provider for defined benefit plans see 29 CFR 2509.95-1.
(2) This section sets forth an optional means for satisfying the fiduciary responsibilities under section 404(a)(1)(B) of ERISA with respect to the selection of an annuity provider or contract for benefit distributions. This section does not establish minimum requirements or the exclusive means for satisfying these responsibilities.
(b)
Safe harbor.
The selection of an annuity provider for benefit distributions from an individual account plan satisfies the requirements of section 404(a)(1)(B) of ERISA if the fiduciary:
(1) Engages in an objective, thorough and analytical search for the purpose of identifying and selecting providers from which to purchase annuities;
(2) Appropriately considers information sufficient to assess the ability of the annuity provider to make all future payments under the annuity contract;
(3) Appropriately considers the cost (including fees and commissions) of the annuity contract in relation to the benefits and administrative services to be provided under such contract;
(4) Appropriately concludes that, at the time of the selection, the annuity provider is financially able to make all future payments under the annuity contract and the cost of the annuity contract is reasonable in relation to the benefits and services to be provided under the contract; and
(5) If necessary, consults with an appropriate expert or experts for purposes of compliance with the provisions of this paragraph (b).
(c)
Time of selection.
For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the “time of selection” may be either:
(1) The time that the annuity provider and contract are selected for distribution of benefits to a specific participant or beneficiary; or
(2) The time that the annuity provider is selected to provide annuity contracts at future dates to participants or beneficiaries, provided that the selecting fiduciary periodically reviews the continuing appropriateness of the conclusion described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, taking into
account the factors described in paragraphs (b)(2), (3) and (5) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), a fiduciary is not required to review the appropriateness of this conclusion with respect to any annuity contract purchased for any specific participant or beneficiary.
[73 FR 58449, Oct. 7, 2008]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 28006, July 1, 2025, § 2550.404a-4 was removed, effective Sept. 2, 2025.
§ 2550.404a-5
Fiduciary requirements for disclosure in participant-directed individual account plans.
(a)
General.
The investment of plan assets is a fiduciary act governed by the fiduciary standards of section 404(a)(1)(A) and (B) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
(all section references herein are references to ERISA unless otherwise indicated). Pursuant to section 404(a)(1)(A) and (B), fiduciaries must discharge their duties with respect to the plan prudently and solely in the interest of participants and beneficiaries. When the documents and instruments governing an individual account plan, described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, provide for the allocation of investment responsibilities to participants or beneficiaries, the plan administrator, as defined in section 3(16), must take steps to ensure, consistent with section 404(a)(1)(A) and (B), that such participants and beneficiaries, on a regular and periodic basis, are made aware of their rights and responsibilities with respect to the investment of assets held in, or contributed to, their accounts and are provided sufficient information regarding the plan, including fees and expenses, and regarding designated investment alternatives, including fees and expenses attendant thereto, to make informed decisions with regard to the management of their individual accounts.
(b)
Satisfaction of duty to disclose
—(1)
In general.
The plan administrator of a covered individual account plan must comply with the disclosure requirements set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with respect to each participant or beneficiary that, pursuant to the terms of the plan, has the right to direct the investment of assets held in, or contributed to, his or her individual account. Compliance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section will satisfy the duty to make the regular and periodic disclosures described in paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the information contained in such disclosures is complete and accurate. A plan administrator will not be liable for the completeness and accuracy of information used to satisfy these disclosure requirements when the plan administrator reasonably and in good faith relies on information received from or provided by a plan service provider or the issuer of a designated investment alternative.
(2)
Covered individual account plan.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a “covered individual account plan” is any participant-directed individual account plan as defined in section 3(34) of ERISA, except that such term shall not include plans involving individual retirement accounts or individual retirement annuities described in sections 408(k) (“simplified employee pension”) or 408(p) (“simple retirement account”) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(c)
Disclosure of plan-related information.
A plan administrator (or person designated by the plan administrator to act on its behalf) shall provide to each participant or beneficiary the plan-related information described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, based on the latest information available to the plan.
(1)
General.
(i) On or before the date on which a participant or beneficiary can first direct his or her investments and at least annually thereafter:
(A) An explanation of the circumstances under which participants and beneficiaries may give investment instructions;
(B) An explanation of any specified limitations on such instructions under the terms of the plan, including any restrictions on transfer to or from a designated investment alternative;
(C) A description of or reference to plan provisions relating to the exercise of voting, tender and similar rights appurtenant to an investment in a designated investment alternative as well as any restrictions on such rights;
(D) An identification of any designated investment alternatives offered under the plan;
(E) An identification of any designated investment managers; and
(F) A description of any “brokerage windows,” “self-directed brokerage accounts,” or similar plan arrangements that enable participants and beneficiaries to select investments beyond those designated by the plan.
(ii) If there is a change to the information described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section, each participant and beneficiary must be furnished a description of such change at least 30 days, but not more than 90 days, in advance of the effective date of such change, unless the inability to provide such advance notice is due to events that were unforeseeable or circumstances beyond the control of the plan administrator, in which case notice of such change must be furnished as soon as reasonably practicable.
(2)
Administrative expenses.
(i)(A) On or before the date on which a participant or beneficiary can first direct his or her investments and at least annually thereafter, an explanation of any fees and expenses for general plan administrative services (e.g., legal, accounting, recordkeeping), which may be charged against the individual accounts of participants and beneficiaries and are not reflected in the total annual operating expenses of any designated investment alternative, as well as the basis on which such charges will be allocated (e.g., pro rata, per capita) to, or affect the balance of, each individual account.
(B) If there is a change to the information described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section, each participant and beneficiary must be furnished a description of such change at least 30 days, but not more than 90 days, in advance of the effective date of such change, unless the inability to provide such advance notice is due to events that were unforeseeable or circumstances beyond the control of the plan administrator, in which case notice of such change must be furnished as soon as reasonably practicable.
(ii) At least quarterly, a statement that includes:
(A) The dollar amount of the fees and expenses described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section that are actually charged (whether by liquidating shares or deducting dollars) during the preceding quarter to the participant's or beneficiary's account for such services;
(B) A description of the services to which the charges relate (e.g., plan administration, including recordkeeping, legal, accounting services); and
(C) If applicable, an explanation that, in addition to the fees and expenses disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, some of the plan's administrative expenses for the preceding quarter were paid from the total annual operating expenses of one or more of the plan's designated investment alternatives (e.g., through revenue sharing arrangements, Rule 12b-1 fees, sub-transfer agent fees).
(3)
Individual expenses.
(i)(A) On or before the date on which a participant or beneficiary can first direct his or her investments and at least annually thereafter, an explanation of any fees and expenses that may be charged against the individual account of a participant or beneficiary on an individual, rather than on a plan-wide, basis (e.g., fees attendant to processing plan loans or qualified domestic relations orders, fees for investment advice, fees for brokerage windows, commissions, front- or back-end loads or sales charges, redemption fees, transfer fees and similar expenses, and optional rider charges in annuity contracts) and which are not reflected in the total annual operating expenses of any designated investment alternative.
(B) If there is a change to the information described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section, each participant and beneficiary must be furnished a description of such change at least 30 days, but not more than 90 days, in advance of the effective date of such change, unless the inability to provide such advance notice is due to events that were unforeseeable or circumstances beyond the control of the plan administrator, in which case notice of such change must be furnished as soon as reasonably practicable.
(ii) At least quarterly, a statement that includes:
(A) The dollar amount of the fees and expenses described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section that are actually charged (whether by liquidating shares or deducting dollars) during the preceding quarter to the participant's or beneficiary's account for individual services; and
(B) A description of the services to which the charges relate (e.g., loan processing fee).
(4)
Disclosures on or before first investment.
The requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i)(A), (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section to furnish information on or before the date on which a participant or beneficiary can first direct his or her investments may be satisfied by furnishing to the participant or beneficiary the most recent annual disclosure furnished to participants and beneficiaries pursuant those paragraphs and any updates to the information furnished to participants and beneficiaries pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2)(i)(B) and (c)(3)(i)(B) of this section.
(d)
Disclosure of investment-related information.
The plan administrator (or person designated by the plan administrator to act on its behalf), based on the latest information available to the plan, shall:
(1)
Information to be provided automatically.
Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, furnish to each participant or beneficiary on or before the date on which he or she can first direct his or her investments and at least annually thereafter, the following information with respect to each designated investment alternative offered under the plan—
(i)
Identifying information.
Such information shall include:
(A) The name of each designated investment alternative; and
(B) The type or category of the investment (e.g., money market fund, balanced fund (stocks and bonds), large-cap stock fund, employer stock fund, employer securities).
(ii)
Performance data.
(A) For designated investment alternatives with respect to which the return is not fixed, the average annual total return of the investment for 1-, 5-, and 10-calendar year periods (or for the life of the alternative, if shorter) ending on the date of the most recently completed calendar year; as well as a statement indicating that an investment's past performance is not necessarily an indication of how the investment will perform in the future; and
(B) For designated investment alternatives with respect to which the return is fixed or stated for the term of the investment, both the fixed or stated annual rate of return and the term of the investment. If, with respect to such a designated investment alternative, the issuer reserves the right to adjust the fixed or stated rate of return prospectively during the term of the contract or agreement, the current rate of return, the minimum rate guaranteed under the contract, if any, and a statement advising participants and beneficiaries that the issuer may adjust the rate of return prospectively and how to obtain (e.g., telephone or Web site) the most recent rate of return required under this section.
(iii)
Benchmarks.
For designated investment alternatives with respect to which the return is not fixed, the name and returns of an appropriate broad-based securities market index over the 1-, 5-, and 10-calendar year periods (or for the life of the alternative, if shorter) comparable to the performance data periods provided under paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, and which is not administered by an affiliate of the investment issuer, its investment adviser, or a principal underwriter, unless the index is widely recognized and used.
(iv)
Fee and expense information.
(A) For designated investment alternatives with respect to which the return is not fixed:
(
1
) The amount and a description of each shareholder-type fee (fees charged directly against a participant's or beneficiary's investment, such as commissions, sales loads, sales charges, deferred sales charges, redemption fees, surrender charges, exchange fees, account fees, and purchase fees, which are not included in the total annual operating expenses of any designated investment alternative) and a description of any restriction or limitation that may be applicable to a purchase, transfer, or withdrawal of the investment in whole or in part (such as round
trip, equity wash, or other restrictions);
(
2
) The total annual operating expenses of the investment expressed as a percentage (
i.e.,
expense ratio), calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(5) of this section;
(
3
) The total annual operating expenses of the investment for a one-year period expressed as a dollar amount for a $1,000 investment (assuming no returns and based on the percentage described in paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(A)(
2
) of this section);
(
4
) A statement indicating that fees and expenses are only one of several factors that participants and beneficiaries should consider when making investment decisions; and
(
5
) A statement that the cumulative effect of fees and expenses can substantially reduce the growth of a participant's or beneficiary's retirement account and that participants and beneficiaries can visit the Employee Benefit Security Administration's Web site for an example demonstrating the long-term effect of fees and expenses.
(B) For designated investment alternatives with respect to which the return is fixed for the term of the investment, the amount and a description of any shareholder-type fees and a description of any restriction or limitation that may be applicable to a purchase, transfer or withdrawal of the investment in whole or in part.
(v)
Internet Web site address.
An Internet Web site address that is sufficiently specific to provide participants and beneficiaries access to the following information regarding the designated investment alternative:
(A) The name of the alternative's issuer;
(B) The alternative's objectives or goals in a manner consistent with Securities and Exchange Commission Form N-1A or N-3, as appropriate;
(C) The alternative's principal strategies (including a general description of the types of assets held by the investment) and principal risks in a manner consistent with Securities and Exchange Commission Form N-1A or N-3, as appropriate;
(D) The alternative's portfolio turnover rate in a manner consistent with Securities and Exchange Commission Form N-1A or N-3, as appropriate;
(E) The alternative's performance data described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section updated on at least a quarterly basis, or more frequently if required by other applicable law; and
(F) The alternative's fee and expense information described in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(vi)
Glossary.
A general glossary of terms to assist participants and beneficiaries in understanding the designated investment alternatives, or an Internet Web site address that is sufficiently specific to provide access to such a glossary along with a general explanation of the purpose of the address.
(vii)
Annuity options.
If a designated investment alternative is part of a contract, fund or product that permits participants or beneficiaries to allocate contributions toward the future purchase of a stream of retirement income payments guaranteed by an insurance company, the information set forth in paragraph (i)(2)(i) through (i)(2)(vii) of this section with respect to the annuity option, to the extent such information is not otherwise included in investment-related fees and expenses described in paragraph (d)(1)(iv).
(viii)
Disclosures on or before first investment.
The requirement in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to provide information to a participant or beneficiary on or before the date on which the participant or beneficiary can first direct his or her investments may be satisfied by furnishing to the participant or beneficiary the most recent annual disclosure furnished to participants and beneficiaries pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(2)
Comparative format.
(i) Furnish the information described in paragraph (d)(1) and, if applicable, paragraph (i) of this section in a chart or similar format that is designed to facilitate a comparison of such information for each designated investment alternative available under the plan and prominently displays the date, and that includes:
(A) A statement indicating the name, address, and telephone number of the
plan administrator (or a person or persons designated by the plan administrator to act on its behalf) to contact for the provision of the information required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section;
(B) A statement that additional investment-related information (including more current performance information) is available at the listed Internet Web site addresses (
see
paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section); and
(C) A statement explaining how to request and obtain, free of charge, paper copies of the information required to be made available on a Web site pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(v), paragraph (i)(2)(vi), relating to annuity options, or paragraph (i)(3), relating to fixed-return investments, of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this section shall preclude a plan administrator from including additional information that the plan administrator determines appropriate for such comparisons, provided such information is not inaccurate or misleading.
(3)
Information to be provided subsequent to investment.
Furnish to each investing participant or beneficiary, subsequent to an investment in a designated investment alternative, any materials provided to the plan relating to the exercise of voting, tender and similar rights appurtenant to the investment, to the extent that such rights are passed through to such participant or beneficiary under the terms of the plan.
(4)
Information to be provided upon request.
Furnish to each participant or beneficiary, either at the times specified in paragraph (d)(1), or upon request, the following information relating to designated investment alternatives—
(i) Copies of prospectuses (or, alternatively, any short-form or summary prospectus, the form of which has been approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission) for the disclosure of information to investors by entities registered under either the Securities Act of 1933 or the Investment Company Act of 1940, or similar documents relating to designated investment alternatives that are provided by entities that are not registered under either of these Acts;
(ii) Copies of any financial statements or reports, such as statements of additional information and shareholder reports, and of any other similar materials relating to the plan's designated investment alternatives, to the extent such materials are provided to the plan;
(iii) A statement of the value of a share or unit of each designated investment alternative as well as the date of the valuation; and
(iv) A list of the assets comprising the portfolio of each designated investment alternative which constitute plan assets within the meaning of 29 CFR 2510.3-101 and the value of each such asset (or the proportion of the investment which it comprises).
(e)
Form of disclosure.
(1) The information required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i)(A), and (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section may be provided as part of the plan's summary plan description furnished pursuant to ERISA section 102 or as part of a pension benefit statement furnished pursuant to ERISA section 105(a)(1)(A)(i), if such summary plan description or pension benefit statement is furnished at a frequency that comports with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) The information required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section may be included as part of a pension benefit statement furnished pursuant to ERISA section 105(a)(1)(A)(i).
(3) A plan administrator that uses and accurately completes the model in the Appendix, taking into account each designated investment alternative offered under the plan, will be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(4) Except as otherwise explicitly required herein, fees and expenses may be expressed in terms of a monetary amount, formula, percentage of assets, or per capita charge.
(5) The information required to be prepared by the plan administrator for disclosure under this section shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant.
(f)
Selection and monitoring.
Nothing herein is intended to relieve a fiduciary from its duty to prudently select and
monitor providers of services to the plan or designated investment alternatives offered under the plan.
(g)
Manner of furnishing.
[Reserved]
(h)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the term—
(1)
At least annually thereafter
means at least once in any 14-month period, without regard to whether the plan operates on a calendar year or fiscal year basis.
(2)
At least quarterly
means at least once in any 3-month period, without regard to whether the plan operates on a calendar or fiscal year basis.
(3)
Average annual total return
means the average annual compounded rate of return that would equate an initial investment in a designated investment alternative to the ending redeemable value of that investment calculated with the before tax methods of computation prescribed in Securities and Exchange Commission Form N-1A, N-3, or N-4, as appropriate, except that such method of computation may exclude any front-end, deferred or other sales loads that are waived for the participants and beneficiaries of the covered individual account plan.
(4)
Designated investment alternative
means any investment alternative designated by the plan into which participants and beneficiaries may direct the investment of assets held in, or contributed to, their individual accounts. The term “designated investment alternative” shall not include “brokerage windows,” “self-directed brokerage accounts,” or similar plan arrangements that enable participants and beneficiaries to select investments beyond those designated by the plan.
(5)
Total annual operating expenses
means:
(i) In the case of a designated investment alternative that is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the annual operating expenses and other asset-based charges before waivers and reimbursements (e.g., investment management fees, distribution fees, service fees, administrative expenses, separate account expenses, mortality and expense risk fees) that reduce the alternative's rate of return, expressed as a percentage, calculated in accordance with the required Securities and Exchange Commission form, e.g., Form N-1A (open-end management investment companies) or Form N-3 or N-4 (separate accounts offering variable annuity contracts); or
(ii) In the case of a designated investment alternative that is not registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the sum of the fees and expenses described in paragraphs (h)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section before waivers and reimbursements, for the alternative's most recently completed fiscal year, expressed as a percentage of the alternative's average net asset value for that year—
(A) Management fees as described in the Securities and Exchange Commission Form N-1A that reduce the alternative's rate of return,
(B) Distribution and/or servicing fees as described in the Securities and Exchange Commission Form N-1A that reduce the alternative's rate of return, and
(C) Any other fees or expenses not included in paragraphs (h)(5)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section that reduce the alternative's rate of return (e.g., externally negotiated fees, custodial expenses, legal expenses, accounting expenses, transfer agent expenses, recordkeeping fees, administrative fees, separate account expenses, mortality and expense risk fees), excluding brokerage costs described in Item 21 of Securities and Exchange Commission Form N-1A.
(i)
Special rules.
The rules set forth in this paragraph apply solely for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(1)
Qualifying employer securities.
In the case of designated investment alternatives designed to invest in, or primarily in, qualifying employer securities, within the meaning of section 407 of ERISA, the following rules shall apply—
(i) In lieu of the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(v)(C) of this section (relating to principal strategies and principal risks), provide an explanation of the importance of a well-balanced and diversified investment portfolio.
(ii) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(v)(D) of this section (relating to portfolio turnover rate) do not apply to such designated investment alternatives.
(iii) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(v)(F) of this section (relating to fee and expense information) do not apply to such designated investment alternatives, unless the designated investment alternative is a fund with respect to which participants or beneficiaries acquire units of participation, rather than actual shares, in exchange for their investment.
(iv) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(A)(
2
) of this section (relating to total annual operating expenses expressed as a percentage) do not apply to such designated investment alternatives, unless the designated investment alternative is a fund with respect to which participants or beneficiaries acquire units of participation, rather than actual shares, in exchange for their investment.
(v) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(A)(
3
) of this section (relating to total annual operating expenses expressed as a dollar amount per $1,000 invested) do not apply to such designated investment alternatives, unless the designated investment alternative is a fund with respect to which participants or beneficiaries acquire units of participation, rather than actual shares, in exchange for their investment.
(vi)(A) With respect to the requirement in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section (relating to performance data for 1-, 5-, and 10-year periods), the definition of “average annual total return” as defined in paragraph (i)(1)(vi)(B) of this section shall apply to such designated investment alternatives in lieu of the definition in paragraph (h)(3) of this section if the qualifying employer securities are publicly traded on a national exchange or generally recognized market and the designated investment alternative is not a fund with respect to which participants or beneficiaries acquire units of participation, rather than actual shares, in exchange for their investment.
(B) The term “average annual total return” means the change in value of an investment in one share of stock on an annualized basis over a specified period, calculated by taking the sum of the dividends paid during the measurement period, assuming reinvestment, plus the difference between the stock price (consistent with ERISA section 3(18)) at the end and at the beginning of the measurement period, and dividing by the stock price at the beginning of the measurement period; reinvestment of dividends is assumed to be in stock at market prices at approximately the same time actual dividends are paid.
(C) The definition of “average annual total return” in paragraph (i)(1)(vi)(B) of this section shall apply to such designated investment alternatives consisting of employer securities that are not publicly traded on a national exchange or generally recognized market, unless the designated investment alternative is a fund with respect to which participants or beneficiaries acquire units of participation, rather than actual shares, in exchange for their investment. Changes in value shall be calculated using principles similar to those set forth in paragraph (i)(1)(vi)(B) of this section.
(2)
Annuity options.
In the case of a designated investment alternative that is a contract, fund or product that permits participants or beneficiaries to allocate contributions toward the current purchase of a stream of retirement income payments guaranteed by an insurance company, the plan administrator shall, in lieu of the information required by paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(v), provide each participant or beneficiary the following information with respect to each such option:
(i) The name of the contract, fund or product;
(ii) The option's objectives or goals (e.g., to provide a stream of fixed retirement income payments for life);
(iii) The benefits and factors that determine the price (e.g., age, interest rates, form of distribution) of the guaranteed income payments;
(iv) Any limitations on the ability of a participant or beneficiary to withdraw or transfer amounts allocated to the option (e.g., lock-ups) and any fees or charges applicable to such withdrawals or transfers;
(v) Any fees that will reduce the value of amounts allocated by participants or beneficiaries to the option, such as surrender charges, market value adjustments, and administrative fees;
(vi) A statement that guarantees of an insurance company are subject to its long-term financial strength and claims-paying ability; and
(vii) An Internet Web site address that is sufficiently specific to provide participants and beneficiaries access to the following information—
(A) The name of the option's issuer and of the contract, fund or product;
(B) Description of the option's objectives or goals;
(C) Description of the option's distribution alternatives/guaranteed income payments (e.g., payments for life, payments for a specified term, joint and survivor payments, optional rider payments), including any limitations on the right of a participant or beneficiary to receive such payments;
(D) Description of costs and/or factors taken into account in determining the price of benefits under an option's distribution alternatives/guaranteed income payments (e.g., age, interest rates, other annuitization assumptions);
(E) Description of any limitations on the right of a participant or beneficiary to withdraw or transfer amounts allocated to the option and any fees or charges applicable to a withdrawal or transfer; and
(F) Description of any fees that will reduce the value of amounts allocated by participants or beneficiaries to the option (e.g., surrender charges, market value adjustments, administrative fees).
(3)
Fixed-return investments.
In the case of a designated investment alternative with respect to which the return is fixed for the term of the investment, the plan administrator shall, in lieu of complying with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section, provide an Internet Web site address that is sufficiently specific to provide participants and beneficiaries access to the following information—
(i) The name of the alternative's issuer;
(ii) The alternatives objectives or goals (e.g., to provide stability of principal and guarantee a minimum rate of return);
(iii) The alternative's performance data described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section updated on at least a quarterly basis, or more frequently if required by other applicable law;
(iv) The alternative's fee and expense information described in paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(B) of this section.
(4)
Target date or similar funds.
[Reserved]
(j)
Dates
—(1)
Effective date.
This section shall be effective on December 20, 2010.
(2)
Applicability date.
This section shall apply to covered individual account plans for plan years beginning on or after November 1, 2011.
(3)
Transitional rules.
(i)(A) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section, the initial disclosures required on or before the date on which a participant or beneficiary can first direct his or her investments must be furnished no later than the later of 60 days after such applicability date or 60 days after the effective date of 29 CFR 2550.408b-2(c).
(B) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the initial disclosures required under paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section must be furnished no later than 45 days after the end of the quarter in which the disclosure referred to in paragraph (j)(3)(i)(A) of this section was required to be furnished to participants and beneficiaries.
(ii) For plan years beginning before October 1, 2021, if a plan administrator reasonably and in good faith determines that it does not have the information on expenses attributable to the plan that is necessary to calculate, in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the 5-year and 10-year average annual total returns for a designated investment alternative that is not registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the plan administrator may use a reasonable estimate of such expenses or the plan administrator may use the most recently reported total annual operating expenses of the designated investment alternative as a substitute for such expenses. When a plan administrator uses a reasonable estimate or the most recently reported total annual operating expenses as a substitute for actual expenses pursuant to this paragraph, the administrator shall inform participants of the basis on which the returns
were determined. Nothing in this section requires disclosure of returns for periods before the inception of a designated investment alternative.
ER20OC10.000
ER20OC10.001
ER20OC10.002
ER20OC10.003
[75 FR 64937, Oct. 20, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 42542, July 19, 2011; 80 FR 14304, Mar. 19, 2015]
§ 2550.404b-1
Maintenance of the indicia of ownership of plan assets outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States.
(a) No fiduciary may maintain the indicia of ownership of any assets of a plan outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States, unless:
(1) Such assets are:
(i) Securities issued by a person, as defined in section 3(9) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (Act) (other than an individual), which is not organized under the laws of the United States or a State and does not have its principal place of business within the United States;
(ii) Securities issued by a government other than the government of the United States or of a State, or any political subdivision, agency or instrumentality of such a government;
(iii) Securities issued by a person, as defined in section 3(9) of the Act (other than an individual), the principal trading market for which securities is outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States; or
(iv) Currency issued by a government other than the government of the United States if such currency is maintained outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States solely as an incident to the purchase, sale or maintenance of securities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(2)(i) Such assets are under the management and control of a fiduciary which is a corporation or partnership organized under the laws of the United States or a State, which fiduciary has its principal place of business within the United States and which is—
(A) A bank as defined in section 202 (a)(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 that has, as of the last day of its most recent fiscal year, equity capital in excess of $1,000,000;
(B) An insurance company which is qualified under the laws of more than one State to manage, acquire, or dispose of any asset of a plan, which company has, as of the last day of its most recent fiscal year, net worth in excess of $1,000,000 and which is subject to supervision and examination by the State authority having supervision over insurance companies; or
(C) An investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 that has, as of the last day of its most recent fiscal year, total client assets under its management and control in excess $50,000,000 and either
(
1
) Shareholders' or partners' equity in excess of $750,000 or
(
2
) All of its obligations and liabilities assumed or guaranteed by a person described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C)(
1
) or (a)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section; or
(ii) Such indicia of ownership are either
(A) In the physical possession of, or, as a result of normal business operations, are in transit to the physical possession of, a person which is organized under the laws of the United States or a State, which person has its principal place of business in the United States and which is—
(
1
) A bank as defined in section 202(a)(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 that has, as of the last day of its most recent fiscal year, equity capital in excess of $1,000,000;
(
2
) A broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that has, as of the last day of its most recent fiscal year, net worth in excess of $750,000; or
(
3
) A broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that has all of its obligations and liabilities assumed or guaranteed by a person described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C)(
1
) or (a)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section; or
(B) Maintained by a broker or dealer, described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) or (
3
) of this section, in the custody of an entity designated by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a “satisfactory control location” with respect to such broker or dealer pursuant to Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provided that:
(
1
) Such entity holds the indicia of ownership as agent for the broker or dealer, and
(
2
) Such broker or dealer is liable to the plan to the same extent it would be if it retained the physical possession of the indicia of ownership pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(C) Maintained by a bank described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
), in the custody of an entity that is a foreign securities depository, foreign clearing agency which acts as a securities depository, or foreign bank, which entity is supervised or regulated by a government agency or regulatory authority in the foreign jurisdiction having authority over such depositories, clearing agencies or banks, provided that:
(
1
) The foreign entity holds the indicia of ownership as agent for the bank;
(
2
) The bank is liable to the plan to the same extent it would be if it retained the physical possession of the indicia of ownership within the United States;
(
3
) The indicia of ownership are not subject to any right, charge, security interest, lien or claim of any kind in favor of the foreign entity except for their safe custody or administration;
(
4
) Beneficial ownership of the assets represented by the indicia of ownership is freely transferable without the payment of money or value other than for safe custody or administration; and
(
5
) Upon request by the plan fiduciary who is responsible for the selection and retention of the bank, the bank identifies to such fiduciary the name, address and principal place of business of the foreign entity which acts as custodian for the plan pursuant to this paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C), and the name and address of the governmental agency or other regulatory authority that supervises or regulates that foreign entity.
(b) Notwithstanding any requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a fiduciary with respect to a plan may maintain in Canada the indicia of ownership of plan assets which are attributable to a contribution made on behalf of a plan participant who is a citizen or resident of Canada, if such indicia of ownership must remain in Canada in order for the plan to qualify for and maintain tax exempt status under the laws of Canada or to comply with other applicable laws of Canada or any Province of Canada.
(c) For purposes of this regulation:
(1) The term
management and control
means the power to direct the acquisition or disposition through purchase, sale, pledging, or other means; and
(2) The term
depository
means any company, or agency or instrumentality of government, that acts as a custodian of securities in connection with a system for the central handling of securities whereby all securities of a particular class or series of any issuer deposited within the system are treated as fungible and may be transferred, loaned, or pledged by bookkeeping entry without physical delivery of securities certificates.
[42 FR 54124, Oct. 4, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 1267, Jan. 6, 1981]
§ 2550.404c-1
ERISA section 404(c) plans.
(a)
In general.
(1) Section 404(c) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or the Act) provides that if a pension plan that provides for individual accounts permits a participant or beneficiary to exercise control over assets in his account and that participant or beneficiary in fact exercises control over assets in his account, then the participant or beneficiary shall not be deemed to be a fiduciary by reason of his exercise of control and no person who is otherwise a fiduciary shall be liable for any loss, or by reason of any breach, which results from such exercise of control. This section describes the kinds of plans that are “ERISA section 404(c) plans,” the circumstances in which a participant or beneficiary is considered to have exercised independent control over the assets in his account as contemplated by section 404(c), and the consequences of a participant's or beneficiary's exercise of control.
(2) The standards set forth in this section are applicable solely for the purpose of determining whether a plan is an ERISA section 404(c) plan and whether a particular transaction engaged in by a participant or beneficiary of such plan is afforded relief by section 404(c). Such standards, therefore, are not intended to be applied in determining whether, or to what extent, a plan which does not meet the requirements for an ERISA section 404(c) plan or a fiduciary with respect to such a plan satisfies the fiduciary responsibility or other provisions of title I of the Act.
(b)
ERISA section 404(c) plans
—(1)
In general.
An “ERISA section 404(c) Plan” is an individual account plan described in section 3(34) of the Act that:
(i) Provides an opportunity for a participant or beneficiary to exercise control over assets in his individual account (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section); and
(ii) Provides a participant or beneficiary an opportunity to choose, from a broad range of investment alternatives, the manner in which some or all of the assets in his account are invested (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section).
(2)
Opportunity to exercise control.
(i) A plan provides a participant or beneficiary an opportunity to exercise control over assets in his account only if:
(A) Under the terms of the plan, the participant or beneficiary has a reasonable opportunity to give investment instructions (in writing or otherwise, with opportunity to obtain written confirmation of such instructions) to an identified plan fiduciary who is obligated to comply with such instructions except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section; and
(B) The participant or beneficiary is provided or has the opportunity to obtain sufficient information to make informed investment decisions with regard to investment alternatives available under the plan, and incidents of ownership appurtenant to such investments. For purposes of this paragraph, a participant or beneficiary will be considered to have sufficient information if the participant or beneficiary is provided by an identified plan fiduciary (or a person or persons designated by the plan fiduciary to act on his behalf):
(
1
) An explanation that the plan is intended to constitute a plan described in section 404(c) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and 29 CFR 2550.404c-1, and that the fiduciaries of the plan may be relieved of liability for any losses which are the direct and necessary result of investment instructions given by such participant or beneficiary;
(
2
) The information required pursuant to 29 CFR 2550.404a-5; and
(
3
) In the case of plans which offer an investment alternative which is designed to permit a participant or beneficiary to directly or indirectly acquire or sell any employer security (employer security alternative), a description of the procedures established to provide for the confidentiality of information relating to the purchase, holding and sale of employer securities, and the exercise of voting, tender and similar rights, by participants and beneficiaries, and the name, address and phone number of the plan fiduciary responsible for monitoring compliance with the procedures (
see
paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(E)(
4
)(
vii
), (
viii
) and (
ix
) of this section).
(ii) A plan does not fail to provide an opportunity for a participant or beneficiary to exercise control over his individual account merely because it—
(A)
Imposes charges for reasonable expenses.
A plan may charge participants' and beneficiaries' accounts for the reasonable expenses of carrying out investment instructions, provided that procedures are established under the plan to periodically inform such participants and beneficiaries of actual expenses incurred with respect to their respective individual accounts;
(B)
Permits a fiduciary to decline to implement investment instructions by participants and beneficiaries.
A fiduciary may decline to implement participant and beneficiary instructions which are described at paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, as well as instructions specified in the plan, including instructions—
(
1
) Which would result in a prohibited transaction described in ERISA section 406 or section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code, and
(
2
) Which would generate income that would be taxable to the plan;
(C)
Imposes reasonable restrictions on frequency of investment instructions.
A plan may impose reasonable restrictions on the frequency with which participants and beneficiaries may give investment instructions. In no event, however, is such a restriction reasonable unless, with respect to each investment alternative made available by the plan, it permits participants and beneficiaries to give investment instructions with a frequency which is appropriate in light of the market volatility to which the investment alternative may reasonably be expected to be subject, provided that—
(
1
) At least three of the investment alternatives made available pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section, which constitute a broad range of investment alternatives, Permit participants and beneficiaries to give investment instructions no less frequently than once within any three month period; and
(
2
)(
i
) At least one of the investment alternatives meeting the requirements
of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(
1
) of this section permits participants and beneficiaries to give investment instructions with regard to transfers into the investment alternative as frequently as participants and beneficiaries are permitted to give investment instructions with respect to any investment alternative made available by the plan which permits participants and beneficiaries to give investment instructions more frequently than once within any three month period; or
(
ii
) With respect to each investment alternative which permits participants and beneficiaries to give investment instructions more frequently than once within any three month period, participants and beneficiaries are permitted to direct their investments from such alternative into an income producing, low risk, liquid fund, subfund, or account as frequently as they are permitted to give investment instructions with respect to each such alternative and, with respect to such fund, subfund or account, participants and beneficiaries are permitted to direct investments from the fund, subfund or account to an investment alternative meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(
1
) as frequently as they are permitted to give investment instructions with respect to that investment alternative; and
(
3
) With respect to transfers from an investment alternative which is designed to permit a participant or beneficiary to directly or indirectly acquire or sell any employer security (employer security alternative) either:
(
i
) All of the investment alternatives meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(
1
) of this section must permit participants and beneficiaries to give investment instructions with regard to transfers into each of the investment alternatives as frequently as participants and beneficiaries are permitted to give investment instructions with respect to the employer security alternative; or
(
ii
) Participants and beneficiaries are permitted to direct their investments from each employer security alternative into an income producing, low risk, liquid fund, subfund, or account as frequently as they are permitted to give investment instructions with respect to such employer security alternative and, with respect to such fund, subfund, or account, participants and beneficiaries are permitted to direct investments from the fund, subfund or account to each investment alternative meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(
1
) as frequently as they are permitted to give investment instructions with respect to each such investment alternative.
(iii) Paragraph (c) of this section describes the circumstances under which a participant or beneficiary will be considered to have exercised independent control with respect to a particular transaction.
(3)
Broad range of investment alternatives.
(i) A plan offers a broad range of investment alternatives only if the available investment alternatives are sufficient to provide the participant or beneficiary with a reasonable opportunity to:
(A) Materially affect the potential return on amounts in his individual account with respect to which he is permitted to exercise control and the degree of risk to which such amounts are subject;
(B) Choose from at least three investment alternatives:
(
1
) Each of which is diversified;
(
2
) Each of which has materially different risk and return characteristics;
(
3
) Which in the aggregate enable the participant or beneficiary by choosing among them to achieve a portfolio with aggregate risk and return characteristics at any point within the range normally appropriate for the participant or beneficiary; and
(
4
) Each of which when combined with investments in the other alternatives tends to minimize through diversification the overall risk of a participant's or beneficiary's portfolio;
(C) Diversify the investment of that portion of his individual account with respect to which he is permitted to exercise control so as to minimize the risk of large losses, taking into account the nature of the plan and the size of participants' or beneficiaries' accounts. In determining whether a plan provides the participant or beneficiary with a reasonable opportunity
to diversify his investments, the nature of the investment alternatives offered by the plan and the size of the portion of the individual's account over which he is permitted to exercise control must be considered. Where such portion of the account of any participant or beneficiary is so limited in size that the opportunity to invest in look-through investment vehicles is the only prudent means to assure an opportunity to achieve appropriate diversification, a plan may satisfy the requirements of this paragraph only by offering look-through investment vehicles.
(ii)
Diversification and look-through investment vehicles.
Where look-through investment vehicles are available as investment alternatives to participants and beneficiaries, the underlying investments of the look-through investment vehicles shall be considered in determining whether the plan satisfies the requirements of subparagraphs (b)(3)(i)(B) and (b)(3)(i)(C).
(c)
Exercise of control
—(1)
In general.
(i) Sections 404(c)(1) and 404(c)(2) of the Act and paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section apply only with respect to a transaction where a participant or beneficiary has exercised independent control in fact with respect to the investment of assets in his individual account under an ERISA section 404(c) plan.
(ii) For purposes of sections 404(c)(1) and 404(c)(2) of the Act and paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section, a participant or beneficiary will be deemed to have exercised control with respect to voting, tender or similar rights appurtenant to the participant's or beneficiary's ownership interest in an investment alternative, provided that the participant's or beneficiary's investment in the investment alternative was itself the result of an exercise of control; the participant or beneficiary was provided a reasonable opportunity to give instruction with respect to such incidents of ownership, including the provision of the information described in 29 CFR 2550.404a-5(d)(3); and the participant or beneficiary has not failed to exercise control by reason of the circumstances described in paragraph (c)(2) with respect to such incidents of ownership.
(2)
Independent control.
Whether a participant or beneficiary has exercised independent control in fact with respect to a transaction depends on the facts and circumstances of the particular case. However, a participant's or beneficiary's exercise of control is not independent in fact if:
(i) The participant or beneficiary is subjected to improper influence by a plan fiduciary or the plan sponsor with respect to the transaction;
(ii) A plan fiduciary has concealed material non-public facts regarding the investment from the participant or beneficiary, unless the disclosure of such information by the plan fiduciary to the participant or beneficiary would violate any provision of federal law or any provision of state law which is not preempted by the Act; or
(iii) The participant or beneficiary is legally incompetent and the responsible plan fiduciary accepts the instructions of the participant or beneficiary knowing him to be legally incompetent.
(3)
Transactions involving a fiduciary.
In the case of a sale, exchange or leasing of property (other than a transaction described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(E) of this section) between an ERISA section 404(c) plan and a plan fiduciary or an affiliate of such a fiduciary, or a loan to a plan fiduciary or an affiliate of such a fiduciary, the participant or beneficiary will not be deemed to have exercised independent control unless the transaction is fair and reasonable to him. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a transaction will be deemed to be fair and reasonable to a participant or beneficiary if he pays no more than, or receives no less than, adequate consideration (as defined in section 3(18) of the Act) in connection with the transaction.
(4)
No obligation to advise.
A fiduciary has no obligation under part 4 of title I of the Act to provide investment advice to a participant or beneficiary under an ERISA section 404(c) plan.
(d)
Effect of independent exercise of control
—(1)
Participant or beneficiary not a fiduciary.
If a participant or beneficiary of an ERISA section 404(c) plan exercises independent control over assets in his individual account in the manner described in paragraph (c),
then such participant or beneficiary is not a fiduciary of the plan by reason of such exercise of control.
(2)
Limitation on liability of plan fiduciaries.
(i) If a participant or beneficiary of an ERISA section 404(c) plan exercises independent control over assets in his individual account in the manner described in paragraph (c), then no other person who is a fiduciary with respect to such plan shall be liable for any loss, or with respect to any breach of part 4 of title I of the Act, that is the direct and necessary result of that participant's or beneficiary's exercise of control.
(ii) Paragraph (d)(2)(i) does not apply with respect to any instruction, which if implemented—
(A) Would not be in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the plan insofar as such documents and instruments are consistent with the provisions of title I of ERISA;
(B) Would cause a fiduciary to maintain the indicia of ownership of any assets of the plan outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States other than as permitted by section 404(b) of the Act and 29 CFR 2550.404b-1;
(C) Would jeopardize the plan's tax qualified status under the Internal Revenue Code;
(D) Could result in a loss in excess of a participant's or beneficiary's account balance; or
(E) Would result in a direct or indirect:
(
1
) Sale, exchange, or lease of property between a plan sponsor or any affiliate of the sponsor and the plan except for the acquisition or disposition of any interest in a fund, subfund or portfolio managed by a plan sponsor or an affiliate of the sponsor, or the purchase or sale of any qualifying employer security (as defined in section 407(d)(5) of the Act) which meets the conditions of section 408(e) of ERISA and section (d)(2)(ii)(E)(
4
) below;
(
2
) Loan to a plan sponsor or any affiliate of the sponsor;
(
3
) Acquisition or sale of any employer real property (as defined in section 407(d)(2) of the Act); or
(
4
) Acquisition or sale of any employer security except to the extent that:
(
i
) Such securities are qualifying employer securities (as defined in section 407(d)(5) of the Act);
(
ii
) Such securities are stock or an equity interest in a publicly traded partnership (as defined in section 7704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986), but only if such partnership is an existing partnership as defined in section 10211(c)(2)(A) of the Revenue Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-203);
(
iii
) Such securities are publicly traded on a national exchange or other generally recognized market;
(
iv
) Such securities are traded with sufficient frequency and in sufficient volume to assure that participant and beneficiary directions to buy or sell the security may be acted upon promptly and efficiently;
(
v
) Information provided to shareholders of such securities is provided to participants and beneficiaries with accounts holding such securities;
(
vi
) Voting, tender and similar rights with respect to such securities are passed through to participants and beneficiaries with accounts holding such securities;
(
vii
) Information relating to the purchase, holding, and sale of securities, and the exercise of voting, tender and similar rights with respect to such securities by participants and beneficiaries, is maintained in accordance with procedures which are designed to safeguard the confidentiality of such information, except to the extent necessary to comply with Federal laws or state laws not preempted by the Act;
(
viii
) The plan designates a fiduciary who is responsible for ensuring that: The procedures required under subparagraph (d)(2)(ii)(E)(
4
)(
vii
) are sufficient to safeguard the confidentiality of the information described in that subparagraph, such procedures are being followed, and the independent fiduciary required by subparagraph (d)(2)(ii)(E)(
4
)(
ix
) is appointed; and
(
ix
) An independent fiduciary is appointed to carry out activities relating to any situations which the fiduciary designated by the plan for purposes of subparagraph (d)(2)(ii)(E)(
4
)(
viii
) determines involve a potential for undue employer influence upon participants and beneficiaries with regard to the direct or indirect exercise of shareholder
rights. For purposes of this subparagraph, a fiduciary is not independent if the fiduciary is affiliated with any sponsor of the plan.
(iii) The individual investment decisions of an investment manager who is designated directly by a participant or beneficiary or who manages a look-through investment vehicle in which a participant or beneficiary has invested are not direct and necessary results of the designation of the investment manager or of investment in the look-through investment vehicle. However, this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) shall not be construed to result in liability under section 405 of ERISA with respect to a fiduciary (other than the investment manager) who would otherwise be relieved of liability by reason of section 404(c)(2) of the Act and paragraph (d) of this section.
(iv) Paragraph (d)(2)(i) does not serve to relieve a fiduciary from its duty to prudently select and monitor any service provider or designated investment alternative offered under the plan.
(3)
Prohibited transactions.
The relief provided by section 404(c) of the Act and this section applies only to the provisions of part 4 of title I of the Act. Therefore, nothing in this section relieves a disqualified person from the taxes imposed by sections 4975 (a) and (b) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the transactions prohibited by section 4975(c)(1) of the Code.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Look-through investment vehicle
means:
(i) An investment company described in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a series investment company described in section 18(f) of the 1940 Act or any of the segregated portfolios of such company;
(ii) A common or collective trust fund or a pooled investment fund maintained by a bank or similar institution, a deposit in a bank or similar institution, or a fixed rate investment contract of a bank or similar institution;
(iii) A pooled separate account or a fixed rate investment contract of an insurance company qualified to do business in a State; or
(iv) Any entity whose assets include plan assets by reason of a plan's investment in the entity;
(2)
Adequate consideration
has the meaning given it in section 3(18) of the Act and in any regulations under this title;
(3) An
affiliate
of a person includes the following:
(i) Any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the person;
(ii) Any officer, director, partner, employee, an employee of an affiliated employer, relative (as defined in section 3(15) of ERISA), brother, sister, or spouse of a brother or sister, of the person; and
(iii) Any corporation or partnership of which the person is an officer director or partner.
For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3), the term “control” means, with respect to a person other than an individual, the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of such person.
(4) A
designated investment alternative
is a specific investment identified by a plan fiduciary as an available investment alternative under the plan.
(f)
Examples.
The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples. Examples (5) through (11) assume that the participant has exercised independent control with respect to his individual account under an ERISA section 404(c) plan described in paragraph (b) and has not directed a transaction described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii).
(1) Plan A is an individual account plan described in section 3(34) of the Act. The plan states that a plan participant or beneficiary may direct the plan administrator to invest any portion of his individual account in a particular diversified equity fund managed by an entity which is not affiliated with the plan sponsor, or any other asset administratively feasible for the plan to hold. However, the plan provides that the plan administrator will not implement certain listed instructions for which plan fiduciaries would not be relieved of liability under section 404(c) (
see
paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section). Plan participants and beneficiaries are permitted to give investment instructions during the first week of each month with respect to the equity fund and at any time with respect to other investments. The plan
administrator of Plan A provides each participant and beneficiary with the information described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, including the information that must be provided on or before the date on which a participant or beneficiary can first direct his or her investments and at least annually thereafter pursuant to 29 CFR 2550.404a-5, and provides updated information in the event of any change in the information provided. Subsequent to any investment by a participant or beneficiary, the plan administrator forwards to the investing participant or beneficiary any materials provided to the plan relating to the exercise of voting, tender or similar rights attendant to ownership of an interest in such investment (
see
paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(
3
) of this section and 29 CFR 2550.404a-5(d)(3)). Upon request, the plan administrator provides each participant or beneficiary with copies of any prospectuses (or similar documents relating to designated investment alternatives that are provided by entities that are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Investment Company Act of 1940), financial statements and reports, and any other materials relating to the designated investment alternatives available under the plan in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.404a-5(d)(4)(i) through (iv). Also upon request, the plan administrator provides each participant and beneficiary with other information required by 29 CFR 2550.404a-5(d)(4) with respect to the equity fund, which is a designated investment alternative, including a statement of the value of a share or unit of the participant's or beneficiary's interest in the equity fund and the date of the valuation. Plan A meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section regarding the provision of investment information.
(2) Plan C is an individual account plan described in section 3(34) of the Act under which participants and beneficiaries may choose among three investment alternatives which otherwise meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The plan permits investment instruction with respect to each investment alternative only on the first 10 days of each calendar quarter,
i.e.
, January 1-10, April 1-10, July 1-10 and October 1-10. Plan C satisfies the condition of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(
1
) that instruction be permitted not less frequently than once within any three month period, since there is not any three month period during which control could not be exercised.
(3) Assume the same facts as in paragraph (f)(2), except that investment instruction may only be given on January 1, April 4, July 1 and October 1. Plan C is not an ERISA section 404(c) plan because it does not satisfy the condition of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(
1
) that instruction be permitted not less frequently than once within any three month period. Under these facts, there is a three month period, e.g., January 2 through April 1, during which control could not be exercised by participants and beneficiaries.
(4) Plan D is an individual account plan described in section 3(34) of the Act under which participants and beneficiaries may choose among three diversified investment alternatives which constitute a broad range of investment alternatives. The plan also permits investment instruction with respect to an employer securities alternative but provides that a participant or beneficiary can invest no more than 25% of his account balance in this alternative. This restriction does not affect the availability of relief under section 404(c) inasmuch as it does not relate to the three diversified investment alternatives and, therefore, does not cause the plan to fail to provide an opportunity to choose from a broad range of investment alternatives.
(5) A participant, P, independently exercises control over assets in his individual account plan by directing a plan fiduciary, F, to invest 100% of his account balance in a single stock. P is not a fiduciary with respect to the plan by reason of his exercise of control and F will not be liable for any losses that necessarily result form P's investment instruction.
(6) Assume the same facts as in paragraph (f)(5), except that P directs F to purchase the stock from B, who is a party in interest with respect to the plan. Neither P nor F has engaged in a transaction prohibited under section 406 of the Act: P because he is not a fiduciary with respect to the plan by reason of his exercise of control and F because he is not liable for any breach of part 4 of title I that is the direct and necessary consequence of P's exercise of control. However, a prohibited transaction under section 4975(c) of the Internal Revenue Code may have occurred, and, in the absence of an exemption, tax liability may be imposed pursuant to sections 495 (a) and (b) of the Code.
(7) Assume the same facts as in paragraph (f)(5), except that P does not specify that the stock be purchased from B, and F chooses to purchase the stock from B. In the absence of an exemption, F has engaged in a prohibited transaction described in 406(a) of ERISA because the decision to purchase the stock from B is not a direct or necessary result of P's exercise of control.
(8) Pursuant to the terms of the plan, plan fiduciary F designates three reputable investment managers whom participants may appoint to manage assets in their individual accounts. Participant P selects M, one of the designated managers, to manage the assets in his account. M prudently manages P's account for 6 months after which he incurs losses in managing the account through his imprudence. M has engaged in a breach of fiduciary duty because M's imprudent management of P's account is not a direct or
necessary result of P's exercise of control (the choice of M as manager). F has no fiduciary liability for M's imprudence because he has no affirmative duty to advise P (see paragraph (c)(4)) and because F is relieved of co-fiduciary liability by reason of section 404(c)(2) (see paragraph (d)(2)(iii)). F does have a duty to monitor M's performance to determine the suitability of continuing M as an investment manager, however, and M's imprudence would be a factor which F must consider in periodically reevaluating its decision to designate M.
(9) Participant P instructs plan fiduciary F to appoint G as his investment manager pursuant to the terms of the plan which provide P total discretion in choosing an investment manager. Through G's imprudence, G incurs losses in managing P's account. G has engaged in a breach of fiduciary duty because G's imprudent management of P's account is not a direct or necessary result of P's exercise of control (the choice of G as manager). Plan fiduciary F has no fiduciary liability for G's imprudence because F has no obligation to advise P (see paragraph (c)(4)) and because F is relieved of co-fiduciary liability for G's actions by reason of section 404(c)(2) (see paragraph (d)(2)(iii)). In addition, F also has no duty to determine the suitability of G as an investment manager because the plan does not designate G as an investment manager.
(10) Participant P directs a plan fiduciary, F, a bank, to invest all of the assets in his individual account in a collective trust fund managed by F that is designed to be invested solely in a diversified portfolio of common stocks. Due to economic conditions, the value of the common stocks in the bank collective trust fund declines while the value of publicly-offered fixed income obligations remains relatively stable. F is not liable for any losses incurred by P solely because his individual account was not diversified to include fixed income obligations. Such losses are the direct result of P's exercise of control; moreover, under paragraph (c)(4) of this section F has no obligation to advise P regarding his investment decisions.
(11) Assume the same facts as in paragraph (f)(10) except that F, in managing the collective trust fund, invests the assets of the fund solely in a few highly speculative stocks. F is liable for losses resulting from its imprudent investment in the speculative stocks and for its failure to diversify the assets of the account. This conduct involves a separate breach of F's fiduciary duty that is not a direct or necessary result of P's exercise of control (see paragraph (d)(2)(iii)).
(g)
Effective date
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2), this section is effective with respect to transactions occurring on or after the first day of the second plan year beginning on or after October 13, 1992.
(2) This section is effective with respect to transactions occurring under a plan maintained pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements between employee representatives and one or more employers ratified before October 13, 1992 after the later of the date determined under paragraph (g)(1) or the date on which the last collective bargaining agreement terminates. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), any extension or renegotiation of a collective bargaining agreement which is ratified on or after October 13, 1992 is to be disregarded in determining the date on which the agreement terminates.
(3) Transactions occurring before the date determined under subparagraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, are governed by section 404(c) of the Act without regard to the regulation.
[57 FR 46932, Oct. 13, 1992, as amended at 75 FR 64946, Oct. 20, 2010]
§ 2550.404c-5
Fiduciary relief for investments in qualified default investment alternatives.
(a)
In general.
(1) This section implements the fiduciary relief provided under section 404(c)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA or the Act), 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.,
under which a participant or beneficiary in an individual account plan will be treated as exercising control over the assets in his or her account for purposes of ERISA section 404(c)(1) with respect to the amount of contributions and earnings that, in the absence of an investment election by the participant, are invested by the plan in accordance with this regulation. If a participant or beneficiary is treated as exercising control over the assets in his or her account in accordance with ERISA section 404(c)(1) no person who is otherwise a fiduciary shall be liable under part 4 of title I of ERISA for any loss or by reason of any breach which results from such participant's or beneficiary's exercise of control. Except as specifically provided in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, a plan need not meet the requirements for an ERISA section 404(c) plan
under 29 CFR 2550.404c-1 in order for a plan fiduciary to obtain the relief under this section.
(2) The standards set forth in this section apply solely for purposes of determining whether a fiduciary meets the requirements of this regulation. Such standards are not intended to be the exclusive means by which a fiduciary might satisfy his or her responsibilities under the Act with respect to the investment of assets in the individual account of a participant or beneficiary.
(b)
Fiduciary relief.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, a fiduciary of an individual account plan that permits participants or beneficiaries to direct the investment of assets in their accounts and that meets the conditions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not be liable for any loss, or by reason of any breach under part 4 of title I of ERISA, that is the direct and necessary result of (i) investing all or part of a participant's or beneficiary's account in any qualified default investment alternative within the meaning of paragraph (e) of this section, or (ii) investment decisions made by the entity described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section in connection with the management of a qualified default investment alternative.
(2) Nothing in this section shall relieve a fiduciary from his or her duties under part 4 of title I of ERISA to prudently select and monitor any qualified default investment alternative under the plan or from any liability that results from a failure to satisfy these duties, including liability for any resulting losses.
(3) Nothing in this section shall relieve any fiduciary described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section from its fiduciary duties under part 4 of title I of ERISA or from any liability that results from a failure to satisfy these duties, including liability for any resulting losses.
(4) Nothing in this section shall provide relief from the prohibited transaction provisions of section 406 of ERISA, or from any liability that results from a violation of those provisions, including liability for any resulting losses.
(c)
Conditions.
With respect to the investment of assets in the individual account of a participant or beneficiary, a fiduciary shall qualify for the relief described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if:
(1) Assets are invested in a qualified default investment alternative within the meaning of paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) The participant or beneficiary on whose behalf the investment is made had the opportunity to direct the investment of the assets in his or her account but did not direct the investment of the assets;
(3) The participant or beneficiary on whose behalf an investment in a qualified default investment alternative may be made is furnished a notice that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section:
(i)(A) At least 30 days in advance of the date of plan eligibility, or at least 30 days in advance of the date of any first investment in a qualified default investment alternative on behalf of a participant or beneficiary described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; or
(B) On or before the date of plan eligibility provided the participant has the opportunity to make a permissible withdrawal (as determined under section 414(w) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code)); and
(ii) Within a reasonable period of time of at least 30 days in advance of each subsequent plan year;
(4) A fiduciary provides to a participant or beneficiary the material set forth in 29 CFR 2550.404c-1(b)(2)(i)(B)(1)(viii) and (ix) and 29 CFR 404c-1(b)(2)(i)(B)(2) relating to a participant's or beneficiary's investment in a qualified default investment alternative;
(5)(i) Any participant or beneficiary on whose behalf assets are invested in a qualified default investment alternative may transfer, in whole or in part, such assets to any other investment alternative available under the plan with a frequency consistent with that afforded to a participant or beneficiary who elected to invest in the qualified default investment alternative, but not less frequently than once within any three month period;
(ii)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section, any transfer described in paragraph (c)(5)(i), or any permissible withdrawal as determined under section 414(w)(2) of the Code, by a participant or beneficiary of assets invested in a qualified default investment alternative, in whole or in part, resulting from the participant's or beneficiary's election to make such a transfer or withdrawal during the 90-day period beginning on the date of the participant's first elective contribution as determined under section 414(w)(2)(B) of the Code, or other first investment in a qualified default investment alternative on behalf of a participant or beneficiary described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, shall not be subject to any restrictions, fees or expenses (including surrender charges, liquidation or exchange fees, redemption fees and similar expenses charged in connection with the liquidation of, or transfer from, the investment);
(B) Paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(A) of this section shall not apply to fees and expenses that are charged on an ongoing basis for the operation of the investment itself (such as investment management fees, distribution and/or service fees, “12b-1” fees, or legal, accounting, transfer agent and similar administrative expenses), and are not imposed, or do not vary, based on a participant's or beneficiary's decision to withdraw, sell or transfer assets out of the qualified default investment alternative; and
(iii) Following the end of the 90-day period described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(A) of this section, any transfer or permissible withdrawal described in this paragraph (c)(5) of this section shall not be subject to any restrictions, fees or expenses not otherwise applicable to a participant or beneficiary who elected to invest in that qualified default investment alternative; and
(6) The plan offers a “broad range of investment alternatives” within the meaning of 29 CFR 2550.404c-1(b)(3).
(d)
Notice.
The notice required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and shall contain the following:
(1) A description of the circumstances under which assets in the individual account of a participant or beneficiary may be invested on behalf of the participant or beneficiary in a qualified default investment alternative; and, if applicable, an explanation of the circumstances under which elective contributions will be made on behalf of a participant, the percentage of such contributions, and the right of the participant to elect not to have such contributions made on the participant's behalf (or to elect to have such contributions made at a different percentage);
(2) An explanation of the right of participants and beneficiaries to direct the investment of assets in their individual accounts;
(3) A description of the qualified default investment alternative, including a description of the investment objectives, risk and return characteristics (if applicable), and fees and expenses attendant to the investment alternative;
(4) A description of the right of the participants and beneficiaries on whose behalf assets are invested in a qualified default investment alternative to direct the investment of those assets to any other investment alternative under the plan, including a description of any applicable restrictions, fees or expenses in connection with such transfer; and
(5) An explanation of where the participants and beneficiaries can obtain investment information concerning the other investment alternatives available under the plan.
(e)
Qualified default investment alternative.
For purposes of this section, a qualified default investment alternative means an investment alternative available to participants and beneficiaries that:
(1)(i) Does not hold or permit the acquisition of employer securities, except as provided in paragraph (ii).
(ii) Paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section shall not apply to: (A) Employer securities held or acquired by an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or a similar pooled investment vehicle regulated and subject to periodic examination by a State or Federal agency and
with respect to which investment in such securities is made in accordance with the stated investment objectives of the investment vehicle and independent of the plan sponsor or an affiliate thereof; or (B) with respect to a qualified default investment alternative described in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section, employer securities acquired as a matching contribution from the employer/plan sponsor, or employer securities acquired prior to management by the investment management service to the extent the investment management service has discretionary authority over the disposition of such employer securities;
(2) Satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(5) of this section regarding the ability of a participant or beneficiary to transfer, in whole or in part, his or her investment from the qualified default investment alternative to any other investment alternative available under the plan;
(3) Is:
(i) Managed by:
(A) An investment manager, within the meaning of section 3(38) of the Act;
(B) A trustee of the plan that meets the requirements of section 3(38)(A), (B) and (C) of the Act; or
(C) The plan sponsor, or a committee comprised primarily of employees of the plan sponsor, which is a named fiduciary within the meaning of section 402(a)(2) of the Act;
(ii) An investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940; or
(iii) An investment product or fund described in paragraph (e)(4)(iv) or (v) of this section; and
(4) Constitutes one of the following:
(i) An investment fund product or model portfolio that applies generally accepted investment theories, is diversified so as to minimize the risk of large losses and that is designed to provide varying degrees of long-term appreciation and capital preservation through a mix of equity and fixed income exposures based on the participant's age, target retirement date (such as normal retirement age under the plan) or life expectancy. Such products and portfolios change their asset allocations and associated risk levels over time with the objective of becoming more conservative (
i.e.
, decreasing risk of losses) with increasing age. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(i), asset allocation decisions for such products and portfolios are not required to take into account risk tolerances, investments or other preferences of an individual participant. An example of such a fund or portfolio may be a “life-cycle” or “targeted-retirement-date” fund or account.
(ii) An investment fund product or model portfolio that applies generally accepted investment theories, is diversified so as to minimize the risk of large losses and that is designed to provide long-term appreciation and capital preservation through a mix of equity and fixed income exposures consistent with a target level of risk appropriate for participants of the plan as a whole. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(ii), asset allocation decisions for such products and portfolios are not required to take into account the age, risk tolerances, investments or other preferences of an individual participant. An example of such a fund or portfolio may be a “balanced” fund.
(iii) An investment management service with respect to which a fiduciary, within the meaning of paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, applying generally accepted investment theories, allocates the assets of a participant's individual account to achieve varying degrees of long-term appreciation and capital preservation through a mix of equity and fixed income exposures, offered through investment alternatives available under the plan, based on the participant's age, target retirement date (such as normal retirement age under the plan) or life expectancy. Such portfolios are diversified so as to minimize the risk of large losses and change their asset allocations and associated risk levels for an individual account over time with the objective of becoming more conservative (
i.e.
, decreasing risk of losses) with increasing age. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(iii), asset allocation decisions are not required to take into account risk tolerances, investments or other preferences of an individual participant. An example of such a service may be a “managed account.”
(iv)(A) Subject to paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B) of this section, an investment product or fund designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return, whether or not such return is guaranteed, consistent with liquidity. Such investment product shall for purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(iv):
(
1
) Seek to maintain, over the term of the investment, the dollar value that is equal to the amount invested in the product; and
(
2
) Be offered by a State or federally regulated financial institution.
(B) An investment product described in this paragraph (e)(4)(iv) shall constitute a qualified default investment alternative for purposes of paragraph (e) of this section for not more than 120 days after the date of the participant's first elective contribution (as determined under section 414(w)(2)(B) of the Code).
(v)(A) Subject to paragraph (e)(4)(v)(B) of this section, an investment product or fund designed to preserve principal; provide a rate of return generally consistent with that earned on intermediate investment grade bonds; and provide liquidity for withdrawals by participants and beneficiaries, including transfers to other investment alternatives. Such investment product or fund shall, for purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(v), meet the following requirements:
(
1
) There are no fees or surrender charges imposed in connection with withdrawals initiated by a participant or beneficiary; and
(
2
) Such investment product or fund invests primarily in investment products that are backed by State or federally regulated financial institutions.
(B) An investment product or fund described in this paragraph (e)(4)(v) shall constitute a qualified default investment alternative for purposes of paragraph (e) of this section solely for purposes of assets invested in such product or fund before December 24, 2007.
(vi) An investment fund product or model portfolio that otherwise meets the requirements of this section shall not fail to constitute a product or portfolio for purposes of paragraph (e)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section solely because the product or portfolio is offered through variable annuity or similar contracts or through common or collective trust funds or pooled investment funds and without regard to whether such contracts or funds provide annuity purchase rights, investment guarantees, death benefit guarantees or other features ancillary to the investment fund product or model portfolio.
(f)
Preemption of State laws.
(1) Section 514(e)(1) of the Act provides that title I of the Act supersedes any State law that would directly or indirectly prohibit or restrict the inclusion in any plan of an automatic contribution arrangement. For purposes of section 514(e) of the Act and this paragraph (f), an automatic contribution arrangement is an arrangement (or the provisions of a plan) under which:
(i) A participant may elect to have the plan sponsor make payments as contributions under the plan on his or her behalf or receive such payments directly in cash;
(ii) A participant is treated as having elected to have the plan sponsor make such contributions in an amount equal to a uniform percentage of compensation provided under the plan until the participant specifically elects not to have such contributions made (or specifically elects to have such contributions made at a different percentage); and
(iii) Contributions are invested in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(2) A State law that would directly or indirectly prohibit or restrict the inclusion in any pension plan of an automatic contribution arrangement is superseded as to any pension plan, regardless of whether such plan includes an automatic contribution arrangement as defined in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(3) The administrator of an automatic contribution arrangement within the meaning of paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be considered to have satisfied the notice requirements of section 514(e)(3) of the Act if notices are furnished in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3) and (d) of this section.
(4) Nothing in this paragraph (f) precludes a pension plan from including an automatic contribution arrangement
that does not meet the conditions of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
[72 FR 60478, Oct. 24, 2007; 73 FR 23350, Apr. 30, 2008]
§ 2550.407a-1
General rule for the acquisition and holding of employer securities and employer real property.
(a)
In general.
Section 407(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) states that except as otherwise provided in section 407 and section 414 of the Act, a plan may not acquire or hold any employer security which is not a qualifying employer security or any employer real property which is not qualifying employer real property. Section 406(a)(1)(E) prohibits a fiduciary from knowingly causing a plan to engage in a transaction which constitutes a direct or indirect acquisition, on behalf of a plan, of any employer security or employer real property in violation of section 407(a), and section 406(a)(2) prohibits a fiduciary who has authority or discretion to control or manage assets of a plan to permit the plan to hold any employer security or employer real property if he knows or should know that holding such security or real property violates section 407(a).
(b)
Requirements applicable to all plans.
A plan may hold or acquire only employer securities which are qualifying employer securities and employer real property which is qualifying employer real property. A plan may not hold employer securities and employer real property which are not qualifying employer securities and qualifying employer real property, except to the extent that:
(1) The employer security is held by a plan which has made an election under section 407(c)(3) of the Act; or
(2) The employer security is a loan or other extension of credit which satisfies the requirements of section 414(c)(1) of the Act or the employer real property is leased to the employer pursuant to a lease which satisfies the requirements of section 414(c)(2) of the Act.
[42 FR 47201, Sept. 20, 1977; 42 FR 59842, Nov. 22, 1977]
§ 2550.407a-2
Limitation with respect to the acquisition of qualifying employer securities and qualifying employer real property.
(a)
In general.
Section 407(a)(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) provides that a plan may not acquire any qualifying employer security or qualifying employer real property, if immediately after such acquisition the aggregate fair market value of qualifying employer securities and qualifying employer real property held by the plan exceeds 10 percent of the fair market value of the assets of the plan.
(b)
Acquisition.
For pusposes of section 407(a) of the Act, an acquisition by a plan of qualifying employer securities or qualifying employer real property shall include, but not be limited to, an acquisition by purchase, by the exchange of plan assets, by the exercise of warrants or rights, by the conversion of a security (except any acquisition pursuant to a conversion exempt under section 408(b)(7) of the Act), by default of a loan where the qualifying employer security or qualifying employer real property was security for the loan, or by the contribution of such securities or real property to the plan. However, an acquisition of a security shall not be deemed to have occured if a plan acquires the security as a result of a stock dividend or stock split.
(c)
Fair market value—Indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition of a plan asset.
In determining whether a plan is in compliance with the limitation on the acquisition of qualifying employer securities and qualifying employer real property in section 407(a)(2), the limitation on the holding of qualifying employer securities and qualifying employer real property in section 407(a)(3) and § 2550.407a-3 thereunder, and the requirement regarding the disposition of employer securities and employer real property in section 407(a)(4) and § 2550.407a-4 thereunder, the fair market value of total plan assets shall be the fair market value of such assets less the unpaid amount of:
(1) Any indebtedness incurred by the plan in acquiring such assets;
(2) Any indebtedness incurred before the acquisition of such assets if such
indebtedness would not have been incurred but for such acquisition; and
(3) Any indebtedness incurred after the acquisition of such assets if such indebtedness would not have been incurred but for such acquisition and the incurrence of such indebtedness was reasonably foreseeable at the time of such acquisition. However, the fair market value of qualifying employer securities and qualifying employer real property shall be the fair market value of such assets without any reduction for the unpaid amount of any indebtedness incurred by the plan in connection with the acquisition of such employer securities and employer real property.
(d)
Examples.
(1) Plan assets have a fair market value of $100,000. The plan has no liabilities other than liabilities for vested benefits of participants and does not own any employer securities or employer real property. The plan proposes to acquire qualifying employer securities with a fair market value of $10,000 by paying $1,000 in cash and borrowing $9,000. The fair market value of plan assets would be $100,000 ($100,000 of plan assets less $1,000 cash payment plus $10,000 of employer securities less $9,000 indebtedness), the fair market value of the qualifying employer securities would be $10,000, which is 10 percent of the fair market value of plan assets. Accordingly, the acquisition would not contravene section 407(a).
(2) Plan assets have a fair market value of $100,000. The plan has liabilities of $20,000 which were incurred in connection with the acquisition of those assets, and does not own any employer securities or employer real property. The plan proposes to pay cash for qualifying employer securities with a fair market value of $10,000. The fair market value of plan assets would be $80,000 ($100,000 of plan assets less $10,000 cash payment plus $10,000 of employer securities less $20,000 indebtedness), the fair market value of the qualifying employer securities would be $10,000, which is 12.5 percent of the fair market value of plan assets. Accordingly, the acquisition would contravene section 407(a).
[42 FR 47201, Sept. 20, 1977]
§ 2550.407d-5
Definition of the term “qualifying employer security”.
(a)
In general.
For purposes of this section and section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act), the term “qualifying employer security” means an employer security which is:
(1) Stock; or
(2) A marketable obligation, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section and section 407(e) of the Act.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section and section 407(d)(5) of the Act, the term “marketable obligation” means a bond, debenture, note, or certificate, or other evidence of indebtedness (hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as “obligation”) if:
(1) Such obligation is acquired—
(i) On the market, either—
(A) At the price of the obligation prevailing on a national securities exchange which is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or
(B) If the obligation is not traded on such a national securities exchange, at a price not less favorable to the plan than the offering price for the obligation as established by current bid and asked prices quoted by persons independent of the issuer;
(ii) From an underwriter, at a price—
(A) Not in excess of the public offering price for the obligation as set forth in a prospectus or offering circular filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and
(B) At which a substantial portion of the same issue is acquired by persons independent of the issuer; or
(iii) Directly from the issuer at a price not less favorable to the plan than the price paid currently for a substantial portion of the same issue by persons independent of the issuer;
(2) Immediately following acquisition of such obligation,
(i) Not more than 25 percent of the aggregate amount of obligations issued in such issue and outstanding at the time of acquisition is held by the plan, and
(ii) At least 50 percent of the aggregate amount referred to in paragraph (A) is held by persons independent of the issuer; and
(3) Immediately following acquisition of the obligation, not more than 25 percent of the assets of the plan is invested in obligations of the employer or an affiliate of the employer.
[42 FR 44388, Sept. 2, 1977]
§ 2550.407d-6
Definition of the term “employee stock ownership plan”.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Type of plan.
To be an “ESOP” (employee stock ownership plan), a plan described in section 407(d)(6)(A) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) must meet the requirements of this section. See section 407(d)(6)(B).
(2)
Designation as ESOP.
To be an ESOP, a plan must be formally designated as such in the plan document.
(3)
Retroactive amendment.
A plan meets the requirements of this section as of the date that it is designated as an ESOP if it is amended retroactively to meet, and in fact does meet, such requirements at any of the following times:
(i) 12 months after the date on which the plan is designated as an ESOP;
(ii) 90 days after a determination letter is issued with respect to the qualification of the plan as an ESOP under this section, but only if the determination is requested by the date in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section; or
(iii) A later date approved by the Internal Revenue Service district director.
(4)
Addition to other plan.
An ESOP may form a portion of a plan the balance of which includes a qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan which is not an ESOP. A reference to an ESOP includes an ESOP that forms a portion of another plan.
(5)
Conversion of existing plan to an ESOP.
If an existing pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan is converted into an ESOP, the requirements of section 404 of the Act, relating to fiduciary duties, and section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), relating to requirements for plans established for the exclusive benefit of employees, apply to such conversion. A conversion may constitute a termination of an existing plan. For definition of a termination, see the regulations under section 411(d)(3) of the Code and section 4041(f) of the Act.
(6)
Certain arrangements barred
—(i)
Buy-sell agreements.
An arrangement involving an ESOP that creates a put option must not provide for the issuance of put options other than as provided under § 2550.408b-3 (j), (k) and (l). Also, an ESOP must not otherwise obligate itself to acquire securities from a particular security holder at an indefinite time determined upon the happening of an event such as the death of the holder.
(ii) [Reserved]
(b)
Plan designed to invest primarily in qualifying employer securities.
A plan constitutes an ESOP only if the plan specifically states that it is designed to invest primarily in qualifying employer securities. Thus, a stock bonus plan or a money purchase pension plan constituting an ESOP may invest part of its assets in other than qualifying employer securities. Such plan will be treated the same as other stock bonus plans or money purchase pension plans qualified under section 401(a) of the Code with respect to those investments.
(c)
Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury.
A plan constitutes an ESOP for a plan year only if it meets such other requirements as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe by regulation under section 4975(e)(7) of the Code. (See 26 CFR 54.4975-11).
[42 FR 44388, Sept. 2, 1977]
§ 2550.408b-1
General statutory exemption for loans to plan participants and beneficiaries who are parties in interest with respect to the plan.
(a)(1)
In general.
Section 408(b)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act or ERISA) exempts from the prohibitions of section 406(a), 406(b)(1) and 406(b)(2) loans by a plan to parties in interest who are participants or beneficiaries of the plan, provided that such loans:
(i) Are available to all such participants and beneficiaries on a reasonably equivalent basis;
(ii) Are not made available to highly compensated employees, officers or shareholders in an amount greater than the amount made available to other employees;
(iii) Are made in accordance with specific provisions regarding such loans set forth in the plan;
(iv) Bear a reasonable rate of interest; and
(v) Are adequately secured.
The Internal Revenue Code (the Code) contains parallel provisions to section 408(b)(1) of the Act. Effective, December 31, 1978, section 102 of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978 (43 FR 47713, October 17, 1978) transferred the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to promulgate regulations of the type published herein to the Secretary of Labor. Therefore, all references herein to section 408(b)(1) of the Act should be read to include reference to the parallel provisions of section 4975(d)(1) of the Code.
Section 1114(b)(15)(B) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 amended section 408(b)(1)(B) of ERISA by deleting the phrase “highly compensated employees, officers or shareholders” and substituting the phrase “highly compensated employees (within the meaning of section 414(q) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).” Thus, for plans with participant loan programs which are subject to the amended section 408(b)(1)(B), the requirements of this regulation should be read to conform with the amendment.
(2)
Scope.
Section 408(b)(1) of the Act does not contain an exemption from acts described in section 406(b)(3) of the Act (prohibiting fiduciaries from receiving consideration for their own personal account from any party dealing with a plan in connection with a transaction involving plan assets). If a loan from a plan to a participant who is a party in interest with respect to that plan involves an act described in section 406(b)(3), such an act constitutes a separate transaction which is not exempt under section 408(b)(1) of the Act. The provisions of section 408(b)(1) are further limited by section 408(d) of the Act (relating to transactions with owner-employees and related persons).
(3)
Loans.
(i) Section 408(b)(1) of the Act provides relief from the prohibitions of section 406(a), 406(b)(1) and 406(b)(2) for the making of a participant loan. The term “participant loan” refers to a loan which is arranged and approved by the fiduciary administering the loan program primarily in the interest of the participant and which otherwise satisfies the criteria set forth in section 408(b)(1) of the Act. The existence of a participant loan or participant loan program will be determined upon consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances. Thus, for example, the mere presence of a loan document appearing to satisfy the requirements of section 408(b)(1) will not be dispositive of whether a participant loan exists where the subsequent administration of the loan indicates that the parties to the loan agreement did not intend the loan to be repaid. Moreover, a loan program containing a precondition designed to benefit a party in interest (other than the participant) is not afforded relief by section 408(b)(1) or this regulation. In this regard, section 408(b)(1) recognizes that a program of participant loans, like other plan investments, must be prudently established and administered for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants and beneficiaries of the plan.
(ii) For the purpose of this regulation, the term “loan” will include any renewal or modification of an existing loan agreement, provided that, at the time of each such renewal or modification, the requirements of section 408(b)(1) and this regulation are met.
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of § 2550.408b-1(a).

# Example 1:
T, a trustee of plan P, has exclusive discretion over the management and disposition of plan assets. As a result, T is a fiduciary with respect to P under section 3(21)(A) of the Act and a party in interest with respect to P pursuant to section 3(14)(A) of the Act. T is also a participant in P. Among T's duties as fiduciary is the administration of a participant loan program which meets the requirements of section 408(b)(1) of the Act. Pursuant to strict objective criteria stated under the program, T, who participates in all loan decisions, receives a loan on the same terms as other participants. Although the exercise of T's discretion on behalf of himself may constitute an act of self-dealing described in section 406(b)(1), section 408(b)(1) provides an exemption from section 406(b)(1). As a result, the loan from P to T would be exempt under section 408(b)(1), provided the conditions of that section are otherwise satisfied.

# Example 2:
P is a plan covering all the employees of E, the employer who established and maintained P. F is a fiduciary with respect to P and an officer of E. The plan documents governing P give F the authority to establish a participant loan program in accordance with section 408(b)(1) of the Act. Pursuant to an arrangement with E, F establishes such a program but limits the use of loan funds to investments in a limited partnership which is established and maintained by E as general partner. Under these facts, the loan program and any loans made pursuant to this program are outside the scope of relief provided by section 408(b)(1) because the loan program is designed to operate for the benefit of E. Under the circumstances described, the diversion of plan assets for E's benefit would also violate sections 403(c)(1) and 404(a) of the Act.

# Example 3:
Assume the same facts as in Example 2, above, except that F does not limit the use of loan funds. However, E pressures his employees to borrow funds under P's participant loan program and then reloan the loan proceeds to E. F, unaware of E's activities, arranges and approves the loans. If the loans meet all the conditions of section 408(b)(1), such loans will be exempt under that section. However, E's activities would cause the entire transaction to be viewed as an indirect transfer of plan assets between P and E, who is a party in interest with respect to P, but not the participant borrowing from P. By coercing the employees to engage in loan transactions for its benefit, E has engaged in separate transactions that are not exempt under section 408(b)(1). Accordingly, E would be liable for the payment of excise taxes under section 4975 of the Code.

# Example 4:
Assume the same facts as in Example 2, above, except that, in return for structuring and administering the loan program as indicated, E agrees to pay F an amount equal to 10 percent of the funds loaned under the program. Such a payment would result in a separate transaction not covered by section 408(b)(1). This transaction would be prohibited under section 406(b)(3) since F would be receiving consideration from a party in connection with a transaction involving plan assets.

# Example 5:
F is a fiduciary with respect to plan P. D is a party in interest with respect to plan P. Section 406(a)(1)(B) of the Act would prohibit F from causing P to lend money to D. However, F enters into an agreement with Z, a plan participant, whereby F will cause P to make a participant loan to Z with the express understanding that Z will subsequently lend the loan proceeds to D. An examination of Z's credit standing indicates that he is not creditworthy and would not, under normal circumstances, receive a loan under the conditions established by the participant loan program. F's decision to approve the participant loan to Z on the basis of Z's prior agreement to lend the money to D violates the exclusive purpose requirements of sections 403(c) and 404(a). In effect, the entire transaction is viewed as an indirect transfer of plan assets between P and D, and not a loan to a participant exempt under section 408(b)(1). Z's lack of credit standing would also cause the transaction to fail under section 408(b)(1)(A) of the Act.

# Example 6:
F is a fiduciary with respect to Plan P. Z is a plan participant. Z and D are both parties in interest with respect to P. F approves a participant loan to Z in accordance with the conditions established under the participant loan program. Upon receipt of the loan, Z intends to lend the money to D. If F has approved this loan solely upon consideration of those factors which would be considered in a normal commercial setting by an entity in the business of making comparable loans, Z's subsequent use of the loan proceeds will not affect the determination of whether loans under P's program satisfy the conditions of section 408(b)(1).

# Example 7:
A is the trustee of a small individual account plan. D, the president of the plan sponsor, is also a participant in the plan. Pursuant to a participant loan program meeting the requirements of section 408(b)(1), D applies for a loan to be secured by a parcel of real property. D does not intend to repay the loan; rather, upon eventual default, he will permit the property to be foreclosed upon and transferred to the plan in discharge of his legal obligation to repay the loan. A, aware of D's intention, approves the loan. D fails to make two consecutive quarterly payments of principal and interest under the note evidencing the loan thereby placing the loan in default. The plan then acquires the real property upon foreclosure. Such facts and circumstances indicate that the payment of money from the plan to D was not a participant loan eligible for the relief afforded by section 408(b)(1). In effect, this transaction is a prohibited sale or exchange of property between a plan and a party in interest from the time D receives the money.

# Example 8:
Plan P establishes a participant loan program. All loans are subject to the condition that the borrowed funds must be used to finance home purchases. Interest rates on the loans are the same as those charged by a local savings and loan association under similar circumstances. A loan by P to a participant to finance a home purchase would be subject to the relief provided by section 408(b)(1) provided that the conditions of 408(b)(1) are met. A participant loan program which is established to make loans for certain stated purposes (e.g., hardship, college tuition, home purchases, etc.) but which is not otherwise designed to benefit parties in interest (other than plan participants) would not, in itself, cause such program to be ineligible for the relief provided
by section 408(b)(1). However, fiduciaries are cautioned that operation of a loan program with limitations may result in loans not being made available to all participants and beneficiaries on a reasonably equivalent basis.
(b)
Reasonably equivalent basis.
(1) Loans will not be considered to have been made available to participants and beneficiaries on a reasonably equivalent basis unless:
(i) Such loans are available to all plan participants and beneficiaries without regard to any individual's race, color, religion, sex, age or national origin;
(ii) In making such loans, consideration has been given only to those factors which would be considered in a normal commercial setting by an entity in the business of making similar types of loans. Such factors may include the applicant's creditworthiness and financial need; and
(iii) An evaluation of all relevant facts and circumstances indicates that, in actual practice, loans are not unreasonably withheld from any applicant.
(2) A participant loan program will not fail the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section or § 2550.408b-1(c) if the program establishes a minimum loan amount of up to $1,000, provided that the loans granted meet the requirements of § 2550.408b-1(f).
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of § 2550.408b-1(b)(1):

# Example 1:
T, a trustee of plan P, has exclusive discretion over the management and disposition of plan assets. T's duties include the administration of a participant loan program which meets the requirements of section 408(b)(1) of the Act. T receives a participant loan at a lower interest rate than the rate made available to other plan participants of similar financial condition or creditworthiness with similar security. The loan by P to T would not be covered by the relief provided by section 408(b)(1) because loans under P's program are not available to all plan participants on a reasonably equivalent basis.

# Example 2:
Same facts as in example 1, except that T is a member of a committee of trustees responsible for approving participant loans. T pressures the committee to refuse loans to other qualified participants in order to assure that the assets allocated to the participant loan program would be available for a loan by P to T. The loan by P to T would not be covered by the relief provided by section 408(b)(1) since participant loans have not been made available to all participants and beneficiaries on a reasonably equivalent basis.

# Example 3:
T is the trustee of plan P, which covers the employees of E. A, B and C are employees of E, participants in P, and friends of T. The documents governing P provide that T, in his discretion, may establish a participant loan program meeting certain specified criteria. T institutes such a program and tells A, B and C of his decision. Before T is able to notify P's other participants and beneficiaries of the loan program, A, B, and C file loan applications which, if approved, will use up substantially all of the funds set aside for the loan program. Approval of these applications by T would represent facts and circumstances showing that loans under P's program are not available to all participants and beneficiaries on a reasonably equivalent basis.
(c)
Highly compensated employees.
(1) Loans will not be considered to be made available to highly compensated employees, officers or shareholders in an amount greater than the amount made available to other employees if, upon consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the program does not operate to exclude large numbers of plan participants from receiving loans under the program.
(2) A participant loan program will not fail to meet the requirement in paragraph (c)(1), of this section, merely because the plan documents specifically governing such loans set forth either (i) a maximum dollar limitation, or (ii) a maximum percentage of vested accrued benefit which no loan may exceed.
(3) If the second alternative in paragraph (c)(2) of this section (maximum percentage of vested accrued benefit) is chosen, a loan program will not fail to meet this requirement solely because maximum loan amounts will vary directly with the size of the participant's accrued benefit.
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of § 2550.408b-1(c).

# Example 1:
The documents governing plan P provide for the establishment of a participant loan program in which the amount of any loan under the program (when added to the outstanding balances of any other loans under the program to the same participant) does not exceed the lesser of (i) $50,000, or (ii) one-half of the present value of that participant's vested accrued benefit under the plan (but not less than $10,000). P's participant
loan program does not fail to meet the requirement in section 408(b)(1)(B) of the Act, and would be covered by the relief provided by section 408(b)(1) if the other conditions of that section are met.

# Example 2:
The documents governing plan T provide for the establishment of a participant loan program in which the minimum loan amount would be $25,000. The documents also require that the only security acceptable under the program would be the participant's vested accrued benefit. A, the plan fiduciary administering the loan program, finds that because of the restrictions in the plan documents only 20 percent of the plan participants, all of whom earn in excess of $75,000 a year, would meet the threshold qualifications for a loan. Most of these participants are high-level supervisors or corporate officers. Based on these facts, it appears that loans under the program would be made available to highly compensated employees in an amount greater than the amount made available to other employees. As a result, the loan program would fail to meet the requirement in section 408(b)(1)(B) of the Act and would not be covered by the relief provided in section 408(b)(1).
(d)
Specific plan provisions.
For the purpose of section 408(b)(1) and this regulation, the Department will consider that participant loans granted or renewed at any time prior to the last day of the first plan year beginning on or after January 1, 1989, are made in accordance with specific provisions regarding such loans set forth in the plan if:
(1) The plan provisions regarding such loans contain (at a minimum) an explicit authorization for the plan fiduciary responsible for investing plan assets to establish a participant loan program; and
(2) For participant loans granted or renewed on or after the last day of the first plan year beginning on or after January 1, 1989, the participant loan program which is contained in the plan or in a written document forming part of the plan includes, but need not be limited to, the following:
(i) The identity of the person or positions authorized to administer the participant loan program;
(ii) A procedure for applying for loans;
(iii) The basis on which loans will be approved or denied;
(iv) Limitations (if any) on the types and amount of loans offered;
(v) The procedure under the program for determining a reasonable rate of interest;
(vi) The types of collateral which may secure a participant loan; and
(vii) The events constituting default and the steps that will be taken to preserve plan assets in the event of such default.

# Example 1:
Plan P authorizes the trustee to establish a participant loan program in accordance with section 408(b)(1) of the Act. Pursuant to this explicit authority, the trustee establishes a written program which contains all of the information required by § 2550.408b-1(d)(2). Loans made pursuant to this authorization and the written loan program will not fail under section 408(b)(1)(C) of the Act merely because the specific provisions regarding such loans are contained in a separate document forming part of the plan. The specific provisions describing the loan program, whether contained in the plan or in a written document forming part of a plan, do affect the rights and obligations of the participants and beneficiaries under the plan and, therefore, must in accordance with section 102(a)(1) of the Act, be disclosed in the plan's summary plan description.
(e)
Reasonable rate of interest.
A loan will be considered to bear a reasonable rate of interest if such loan provides the plan with a return commensurate with the interest rates charged by persons in the business of lending money for loans which would be made under similar circumstances.

# Example 1:
Plan P makes a participant loan to A at the fixed interest rate of 8% for 5 years. The trustees, prior to making the loan, contacted two local banks to determine under what terms the banks would make a similar loan taking into account A's creditworthiness and the collateral offered. One bank would charge a variable rate of 10% adjusted monthly for a similar loan. The other bank would charge a fixed rate of 12% under similar circumstances. Under these facts, the loan to A would not bear a reasonable rate of interest because the loan did not provide P with a return commensurate with interest rates charged by persons in the business of lending money for loans which would be made under similar circumstances. As a result, the loan would fail to meet the requirements of section 408(b)(1)(D) and would not be covered by the relief provided by section 408(b)(1) of the Act.

# Example 2:
Pursuant to the provisions of plan P's participant loan program, T, the trustee of P, approves a loan to M, a participant and party in interest with respect to P. At the time of execution, the loan meets all
of the requirements of section 408(b)(1) of the Act. The loan agreement provides that at the end of two years M must pay the remaining balance in full or the parties may renew for an additional two year period. At the end of the initial two year period, the parties agree to renew the loan for an additional two years. At the time of renewal, however, A fails to adjust the interest rate charged on the loan in order to reflect current economic conditions. As a result, the interest rate on the renewal fails to provide a “reasonable rate of interest” as required by section 408(b)(1)(D) of the Act. Under such circumstances, the loan would not be exempt under section 408(b)(1) of the Act from the time of renewal.

# Example 3:
The documents governing plan P's participant loan program provide that loans must bear an interest rate no higher than the maximum interest rate permitted under State X's usury law. Pursuant to the loan program, P makes a participant loan to A, a plan participant, at a time when the interest rates charged by financial institutions in the community (not subject to the usury limit) for similar loans are higher than the usury limit. Under these circumstances, the loan would not bear a reasonable rate of interest because the loan does not provide P with a return commensurate with the interest rates charged by persons in the business of lending money under similar circumstances. In addition, participant loans that are artificially limited to the maximum usury ceiling then prevailing call into question the status of such loans under sections 403(c) and 404(a) where higher yielding comparable investment opportunities are available to the plan.
(f)
Adequate security.
(1) A loan will be considered to be adequately secured if the security posted for such loan is something in addition to and supporting a promise to pay, which is so pledged to the plan that it may be sold, foreclosed upon, or otherwise disposed of upon default of repayment of the loan, the value and liquidity of which security is such that it may reasonably be anticipated that loss of principal or interest will not result from the loan. The adequacy of such security will be determined in light of the type and amount of security which would be required in the case of an otherwise identical transaction in a normal commercial setting between unrelated parties on arm's-length terms. A participant's vested accrued benefit under a plan may be used as security for a participant loan to the extent of the plan's ability to satisfy the participant's outstanding obligation in the event of default.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph,
(i) No more than 50% of the present value of a participant's vested accrued benefit may be considered by a plan as security for the outstanding balance of all plan loans made to that participant;
(ii) A plan will be in compliance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section if, with respect to any participant, it meets the provisions of paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section immediately after the origination of each participant loan secured in whole or in part by that participant's vested accrued benefit; and
(iii) Any loan secured in whole or in part by a portion of a participant's vested accrued benefit must also meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g)
Effective date.
This section is effective for all participant loans granted or renewed after October 18, 1989, except with respect to paragraph (d)(2) of this section relating to specific plan provisions. Paragraph (d)(2) of this section is effective for participant loans granted or renewed on or after the last day of the first plan year beginning on or after January 1, 1989.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1210-0076)
[54 FR 30528, July 20, 1989]
§ 2550.408b-2
General statutory exemption for services or office space.
(a)
In general.
Section 408(b)(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) exempts from the prohibitions of section 406(a) of the Act payment by a plan to a party in interest, including a fiduciary, for office space or any service (or a combination of services) if:
(1) Such office space or service is necessary for the establishment or operation of the plan;
(2) Such office space or service is furnished under a contract or arrangement which is reasonable; and
(3) No more than reasonable compensation is paid for such office space or service.
However, section 408(b)(2) does not contain an exemption from acts described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act (relating
to fiduciaries dealing with the assets of plans in their own interest or for their own account), section 406(b)(2) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries in their individual or in any other capacity acting in any transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party (or representing a party) whose interests are adverse to the interests of the plan or the interests of its participants or beneficiaries) or section 406(b)(3) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries receiving consideration for their own personal account from any party dealing with a plan in connection with a transaction involving the assets of the plan). Such acts are separate transactions not described in section 408(b)(2). See § 2250.408b-2 (e) and (f) for guidance as to whether transactions relating to the furnishing of office space or services by fiduciaries to plans involve acts described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act. Section 408(b)(2) of the Act does not contain an exemption from other provisions of the Act, such as section 404, or other provisions of law which may impose requirements or restrictions relating to the transactions which are exempt under section 408(b)(2). See, for example, section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The provisions of section 408(b)(2) of the Act are further limited by section 408(d) of the Act (relating to transactions with owner-employees and related persons).
(b)
Necessary service.
A service is necessary for the establishment or operation of a plan within the meaning of section 408(b)(2) of the Act and § 2550.408b-2(a)(1) if the service is appropriate and helpful to the plan obtaining the service in carrying out the purposes for which the plan is established or maintained. A person providing such a service to a plan (or a person who is a party in interest solely by reason of a relationship to such a service provider described in section 3(14)(F), (G), (H), or (I) of the Act) may furnish goods which are necessary for the establishment or operation of the plan in the course of, and incidental to, the furnishing of such service to the plan.
(c)
Reasonable contract or arrangement
—(1)
Pension plan disclosure
—(i)
General.
No contract or arrangement for services between a covered plan and a covered service provider, nor any extension or renewal, is reasonable within the meaning of section 408(b)(2) of the Act and paragraph (a)(2) of this section unless the requirements of this paragraph (c)(1) are satisfied. The requirements of this paragraph (c)(1) are independent of fiduciary obligations under section 404 of the Act.
(ii)
Covered plan.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), a “covered plan” is an “employee pension benefit plan” or a “pension plan” within the meaning of section 3(2)(A) (and not described in section 4(b)) of the Act, except that the term “covered plan” shall not include a “simplified employee pension” described in section 408(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code); a “simple retirement account” described in section 408(p) of the Code; an individual retirement account described in section 408(a) of the Code; an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b) of the Code; or annuity contracts and custodial accounts described in section 403(b) of the Code issued to a current or former employee before January 1, 2009, for which the employer ceased to have any obligation to make contributions (including employee salary reduction contributions), and in fact ceased making contributions to the contract or account for periods before January 1, 2009, and for which all of the rights and benefits under the contract or account are legally enforceable against the insurer or custodian by the individual owner of the contract or account without any involvement by the employer, and for which such individual owner is fully vested in the contract or account.
(iii)
Covered service provider.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), a “covered service provider” is a service provider that enters into a contract or arrangement with the covered plan and reasonably expects $1,000 or more in compensation, direct or indirect, to be received in connection with providing one or more of the services described in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section pursuant to the contract or arrangement, regardless of whether such services will be performed, or such compensation received, by the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor.
(A)
Services as a fiduciary or registered investment adviser.
(
1
) Services provided directly to the covered plan as a fiduciary (unless otherwise specified, a “fiduciary” in this paragraph (c)(1) is a fiduciary within the meaning of section 3(21) of the Act);
(
2
) Services provided as a fiduciary to an investment contract, product, or entity that holds plan assets (as determined pursuant to sections 3(42) and 401 of the Act and 29 CFR 2510.3-101) and in which the covered plan has a direct equity investment (a direct equity investment does not include investments made by the investment contract, product, or entity in which the covered plan invests); or
(
3
) Services provided directly to the covered plan as an investment adviser registered under either the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or any State law.
(B)
Certain recordkeeping or brokerage services.
Recordkeeping services or brokerage services provided to a covered plan that is an individual account plan, as defined in section 3(34) of the Act, and that permits participants or beneficiaries to direct the investment of their accounts, if one or more designated investment alternatives will be made available (e.g., through a platform or similar mechanism) in connection with such recordkeeping services or brokerage services.
(C)
Other services for indirect compensation.
Accounting, auditing, actuarial, appraisal, banking, consulting (
i.e.,
consulting related to the development or implementation of investment policies or objectives, or the selection or monitoring of service providers or plan investments), custodial, insurance, investment advisory (for plan or participants), legal, recordkeeping, securities or other investment brokerage, third party administration, or valuation services provided to the covered plan, for which the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor reasonably expects to receive indirect compensation (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(viii)(B)(
2
) of this section or compensation described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
3
) of this section).
(D)
Limitations.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, no person or entity is a “covered service provider” solely by providing services—
(
1
) As an affiliate or a subcontractor that is performing one or more of the services described in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section under the contract or arrangement with the covered plan; or
(
2
) To an investment contract, product, or entity in which the covered plan invests, regardless of whether or not the investment contract, product, or entity holds assets of the covered plan, other than services as a fiduciary described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A)(
2
) of this section.
(iv)
Initial disclosure requirements.
The covered service provider must disclose the following information to a responsible plan fiduciary, in writing—
(A)
Services.
A description of the services to be provided to the covered plan pursuant to the contract or arrangement (but not including non-fiduciary services described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(D)(
2
) of this section).
(B)
Status.
If applicable, a statement that the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor will provide, or reasonably expects to provide, services pursuant to the contract or arrangement directly to the covered plan (or to an investment contract, product or entity that holds plan assets and in which the covered plan has a direct equity investment) as a fiduciary (within the meaning of section 3(21) of the Act); and, if applicable, a statement that the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor will provide, or reasonably expects to provide, services pursuant to the contract or arrangement directly to the covered plan as an investment adviser registered under either the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or any State law.
(C)
Compensation
—(
1
)
Direct compensation.
A description of all direct compensation (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(viii)(B)(
1
) of this section), either in the aggregate or by service, that the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor reasonably expects to receive in connection with the services described pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) of this section.
(
2
)
Indirect compensation.
A description of all indirect compensation (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(viii)(B)(
2
) of
this section) that the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor reasonably expects to receive in connection with the services described pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) of this section; including identification of the services for which the indirect compensation will be received, identification of the payer of the indirect compensation, and a description of the arrangement between the payer and the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor, as applicable, pursuant to which such indirect compensation is paid.
(
3
)
Compensation paid among related parties.
A description of any compensation that will be paid among the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor, in connection with the services described pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) of this section if it is set on a transaction basis (e.g., commissions, soft dollars, finder's fees or other similar incentive compensation based on business placed or retained) or is charged directly against the covered plan's investment and reflected in the net value of the investment (e.g., Rule 12b-1 fees); including identification of the services for which such compensation will be paid and identification of the payers and recipients of such compensation (including the status of a payer or recipient as an affiliate or a subcontractor). Compensation must be disclosed pursuant to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
3
) regardless of whether such compensation also is disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
1
) or (
2
), (c)(1)(iv)(E), or (c)(1)(iv)(F) of this section. This paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
3
) shall not apply to compensation received by an employee from his or her employer on account of work performed by the employee.
(
4
)
Compensation for termination of contract or arrangement.
A description of any compensation that the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor reasonably expects to receive in connection with termination of the contract or arrangement, and how any prepaid amounts will be calculated and refunded upon such termination.
(D)
Recordkeeping services.
Without regard to the disclosure of compensation pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C), (c)(1)(iv)(E), or (c)(1)(iv)(F) of this section, if recordkeeping services will be provided to the covered plan—
(
1
) A description of all direct and indirect compensation that the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor reasonably expects to receive in connection with such recordkeeping services; and
(
2
) If the covered service provider reasonably expects recordkeeping services to be provided, in whole or in part, without explicit compensation for such recordkeeping services, or when compensation for recordkeeping services is offset or rebated based on other compensation received by the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor, a reasonable and good faith estimate of the cost to the covered plan of such recordkeeping services, including an explanation of the methodology and assumptions used to prepare the estimate and a detailed explanation of the recordkeeping services that will be provided to the covered plan. The estimate shall take into account, as applicable, the rates that the covered service provider, an affiliate, or a subcontractor would charge to, or be paid by, third parties, or the prevailing market rates charged, for similar recordkeeping services for a similar plan with a similar number of covered participants and beneficiaries.
(E)
Investment disclosure—fiduciary services.
In the case of a covered service provider described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A)(
2
) of this section, the following additional information with respect to each investment contract, product, or entity that holds plan assets and in which the covered plan has a direct equity investment, and for which fiduciary services will be provided pursuant to the contract or arrangement with the covered plan, unless such information is disclosed to the responsible plan fiduciary by a covered service provider providing recordkeeping services or brokerage services as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section—
(
1
) A description of any compensation that will be charged directly against an investment, such as commissions, sales loads, sales charges, deferred sales charges, redemption fees, surrender charges, exchange fees, account fees,
and purchase fees; and that is not included in the annual operating expenses of the investment contract, product, or entity;
(
2
) A description of the annual operating expenses (e.g., expense ratio) if the return is not fixed and any ongoing expenses in addition to annual operating expenses (e.g., wrap fees, mortality and expense fees), or, for an investment contract, product, or entity that is a designated investment alternative, the total annual operating expenses expressed as a percentage and calculated in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.404a-5(h)(5); and
(
3
) For an investment contract, product, or entity that is a designated investment alternative, any other information or data about the designated investment alternative that is within the control of, or reasonably available to, the covered service provider and that is required for the covered plan administrator to comply with the disclosure obligations described in 29 CFR 2550.404a-5(d)(1).
(F)
Investment disclosure—recordkeeping and brokerage services.
(
1
) In the case of a covered service provider described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, the additional information described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(E)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section with respect to each designated investment alternative for which recordkeeping services or brokerage services as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section will be provided pursuant to the contract or arrangement with the covered plan.
(
2
) A covered service provider may comply with this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(F) by providing current disclosure materials of the issuer of the designated investment alternative, or information replicated from such materials, that include the information described in such paragraph, provided that:
(
i
) The issuer is not an affiliate;
(
ii
) The issuer is a registered investment company, an insurance company qualified to do business in any State, an issuer of a publicly traded security, or a financial institution supervised by a State or federal agency; and
(
iii
) The covered service provider acts in good faith and does not know that the materials are incomplete or inaccurate, and furnishes the responsible plan fiduciary with a statement that the covered service provider is making no representations as to the completeness or accuracy of such materials.
(G)
Manner of receipt.
A description of the manner in which the compensation described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C) through (F) of this section, as applicable, will be received, such as whether the covered plan will be billed or the compensation will be deducted directly from the covered plan's account(s) or investments.
(H)
Guide to initial disclosures.
[Reserved]
(v)
Timing of initial disclosure requirements; changes.
(A) A covered service provider must disclose the information required by paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section to the responsible plan fiduciary reasonably in advance of the date the contract or arrangement is entered into, and extended or renewed, except that—
(
1
) When an investment contract, product, or entity is determined not to hold plan assets upon the covered plan's direct equity investment, but subsequently is determined to hold plan assets while the covered plan's investment continues, the information required by paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section must be disclosed as soon as practicable, but not later than 30 days from the date on which the covered service provider knows that such investment contract, product, or entity holds plan assets; and
(
2
) The information described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(F) of this section relating to any investment alternative that is not designated at the time the contract or arrangement is entered into must be disclosed as soon as practicable, but not later than the date the investment alternative is designated by the covered plan.
(B)(
1
) A covered service provider must disclose a change to the information required by paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) through (D), and (G) of this section as soon as practicable, but not later than 60 days from the date on which the covered service provider is informed of such change, unless such disclosure is precluded due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the covered service
provider's control, in which case the information must be disclosed as soon as practicable.
(
2
) A covered service provider must, at least annually, disclose any changes to the information required by paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(E) and (F) of this section.
(vi)
Reporting and disclosure information; timing.
(A) Upon the written request of the responsible plan fiduciary or covered plan administrator, the covered service provider must furnish any other information relating to the compensation received in connection with the contract or arrangement that is required for the covered plan to comply with the reporting and disclosure requirements of Title I of the Act and the regulations, forms and schedules issued thereunder.
(B) The covered service provider must disclose the information required by paragraph (c)(1)(vi)(A) of this section reasonably in advance of the date upon which such responsible plan fiduciary or covered plan administrator states that it must comply with the applicable reporting or disclosure requirement, unless such disclosure is precluded due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the covered service provider's control, in which case the information must be disclosed as soon as practicable.
(vii)
Disclosure errors.
No contract or arrangement will fail to be reasonable under this paragraph (c)(1) solely because the covered service provider, acting in good faith and with reasonable diligence, makes an error or omission in disclosing the information required pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section (or a change to such information disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(v)(B) of this section) or paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section, provided that the covered service provider discloses the correct information to the responsible plan fiduciary as soon as practicable, but not later than 30 days from the date on which the covered service provider knows of such error or omission.
(viii)
Definitions.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section:
(A)
Affiliate.
A person's or entity's “affiliate” directly or indirectly (through one or more intermediaries) controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such person or entity; or is an officer, director, or employee of, or partner in, such person or entity. Unless otherwise specified, an “affiliate” in this paragraph (c)(1) refers to an affiliate of the covered service provider.
(B)
Compensation.
Compensation is anything of monetary value (for example, money, gifts, awards, and trips), but does not include non-monetary compensation valued at $250 or less, in the aggregate, during the term of the contract or arrangement.
(
1
) “Direct” compensation is compensation received directly from the covered plan.
(
2
) “Indirect” compensation is compensation received from any source other than the covered plan, the plan sponsor, the covered service provider, or an affiliate. Compensation received from a subcontractor is indirect compensation, unless it is received in connection with services performed under the subcontractor's contract or arrangement described in paragraph (c)(1)(viii)(F) of this section.
(
3
) A description of compensation or cost may be expressed as a monetary amount, formula, percentage of the covered plan's assets, or a per capita charge for each participant or beneficiary or, if the compensation or cost cannot reasonably be expressed in such terms, by any other reasonable method. The description may include a reasonable and good faith estimate if the covered service provider cannot otherwise readily describe compensation or cost and the covered service provider explains the methodology and assumptions used to prepare such estimate. Any description, including any estimate of recordkeeping cost under paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(D), must contain sufficient information to permit evaluation of the reasonableness of the compensation or cost.
(C)
Designated investment alternative.
A “designated investment alternative” is any investment alternative designated by the covered plan into which participants and beneficiaries may direct the investment of assets held in, or contributed to, their individual accounts. The term “designated investment alternative” shall not include
brokerage windows, self-directed brokerage accounts, or similar plan arrangements that enable participants and beneficiaries to select investments beyond those designated by the covered plan.
(D)
Recordkeeping services.
“Recordkeeping services” include services related to plan administration and monitoring of plan and participant and beneficiary transactions (e.g., enrollment, payroll deductions and contributions, offering designated investment alternatives and other covered plan investments, loans, withdrawals and distributions); and the maintenance of covered plan and participant and beneficiary accounts, records, and statements.
(E)
Responsible plan fiduciary.
A “responsible plan fiduciary” is a fiduciary with authority to cause the covered plan to enter into, or extend or renew, the contract or arrangement.
(F)
Subcontractor.
A “subcontractor” is any person or entity (or an affiliate of such person or entity) that is not an affiliate of the covered service provider and that, pursuant to a contract or arrangement with the covered service provider or an affiliate, reasonably expects to receive $1,000 or more in compensation for performing one or more services described pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section provided for by the contract or arrangement with the covered plan.
(ix)
Exemption for responsible plan fiduciary.
Pursuant to section 408(a) of the Act, the restrictions of section 406(a)(1)(C) and (D) of the Act shall not apply to a responsible plan fiduciary, notwithstanding any failure by a covered service provider to disclose information required by paragraph (c)(1)(iv) or (vi) of this section, if the following conditions are met:
(A) The responsible plan fiduciary did not know that the covered service provider failed or would fail to make required disclosures and reasonably believed that the covered service provider disclosed the information required by paragraph (c)(1)(iv) or (vi) of this section;
(B) The responsible plan fiduciary, upon discovering that the covered service provider failed to disclose the required information, requests in writing that the covered service provider furnish such information;
(C) If the covered service provider fails to comply with such written request within 90 days of the request, then the responsible plan fiduciary notifies the Department of Labor of the covered service provider's failure, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ix)(E) of this section;
(D) The notice shall contain the following information—
(
1
) The name of the covered plan;
(
2
) The plan number used for the covered plan's Annual Report;
(
3
) The plan sponsor's name, address, and EIN;
(
4
) The name, address, and telephone number of the responsible plan fiduciary;
(
5
) The name, address, phone number, and, if known, EIN of the covered service provider;
(
6
) A description of the services provided to the covered plan;
(
7
) A description of the information that the covered service provider failed to disclose;
(
8
) The date on which such information was requested in writing from the covered service provider; and
(
9
) A statement as to whether the covered service provider continues to provide services to the plan;
(E) The notice shall be filed with the Department not later than 30 days following the earlier of—
(
1
) The covered service provider's refusal to furnish the information requested by the written request described in paragraph (c)(1)(ix)(B) of this section; or
(
2
) 90 days after the written request referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(ix)(B) of this section is made;
(F) The notice required by paragraph (c)(1)(ix)(C) of this section shall be furnished to the U.S. Department of Labor electronically in accordance with instructions published by the Department; or may be sent to the following address: U.S. Department of Labor, Employee Benefits Security Administration, Office of Enforcement, P.O. Box 75296, Washington, DC 20013; and
(G) If the covered service provider fails to comply with the written request referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(ix)(C) of this section within 90
days of such request, the responsible plan fiduciary shall determine whether to terminate or continue the contract or arrangement consistent with its duty of prudence under section 404 of the Act. If the requested information relates to future services and is not disclosed promptly after the end of the 90-day period, then the responsible plan fiduciary shall terminate the contract or arrangement as expeditiously as possible, consistent with such duty of prudence.
(x)
Preemption of State law.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to supersede any provision of State law that governs disclosures by parties that provide the services described in this section, except to the extent that such law prevents the application of a requirement of this section.
(xi)
Internal Revenue Code.
Section 4975(d)(2) of the Code contains provisions parallel to section 408(b)(2) of the Act. Effective December 31, 1978, section 102 of the Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978, 5 U.S.C. App. 214 (2000 ed.), transferred the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to promulgate regulations of the type published herein to the Secretary of Labor. All references herein to section 408(b)(2) of the Act and the regulations thereunder should be read to include reference to the parallel provisions of section 4975(d)(2) of the Code and regulations thereunder at 26 CFR 54.4975-6.
(xii)
Effective date.
Paragraph (c) of this section shall be effective on July 1, 2012. Paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall apply to contracts or arrangements between covered plans and covered service providers as of the effective date, without regard to whether the contract or arrangement was entered into prior to such date; for contracts or arrangements entered into prior to the effective date, the information required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section must be furnished no later than the effective date.
(2)
Welfare plan disclosure.
[Reserved]
(3)
Termination of contract or arrangement.
No contract or arrangement is reasonable within the meaning of section 408(b)(2) of the Act and paragraph (a)(2) of this section if it does not permit termination by the plan without penalty to the plan on reasonably short notice under the circumstances to prevent the plan from becoming locked into an arrangement that has become disadvantageous. A long-term lease which may be terminated prior to its expiration (without penalty to the plan) on reasonably short notice under the circumstances is not generally an unreasonable arrangement merely because of its long term. A provision in a contract or other arrangement which reasonably compensates the service provider or lessor for loss upon early termination of the contract, arrangement, or lease is not a penalty. For example, a minimal fee in a service contract which is charged to allow recoupment of reasonable start-up costs is not a penalty. Similarly, a provision in a lease for a termination fee that covers reasonably foreseeable expenses related to the vacancy and reletting of the office space upon early termination of the lease is not a penalty. Such a provision does not reasonably compensate for loss if it provides for payment in excess of actual loss or if it fails to require mitigation of damages.
(d)
Reasonable compensation.
Section 408(b)(2) of the Act and § 2550.408b-2(a)(3) permit a plan to pay a party in interest reasonable compensation for the provision of office space or services described in section 408(b)(2). Section 2550.408c-2 of these regulations contains provisions relating to what constitutes reasonable compensation for the provision of services.
(e)
Transactions with fiduciaries
—(1)
In general.
If the furnishing of office space or a service involves an act described in section 406(b) of the Act (relating to acts involving conflicts of interest by fiduciaries), such an act constitutes a separate transaction which is not exempt under section 408(b)(2) of the Act. The prohibitions of section 406(b) supplement the other prohibitions of section 406(a) of the Act by imposing on parties in interest who are fiduciaries a duty of undivided loyalty to the plans for which they act. These prohibitions are imposed upon fiduciaries to deter them from exercising the authority, control, or responsibility which makes such persons fiduciaries when they have interests which may conflict with
the interests of the plans for which they act. In such cases, the fiduciaries have interests in the transactions which may affect the exercise of their best judgment as fiduciaries. Thus, a fiduciary may not use the authority, control, or responsibility which makes such person a fiduciary to cause a plan to pay an additional fee to such fiduciary (or to a person in which such fiduciary has an interest which may affect the exercise of such fiduciary's best judgment as a fiduciary) to provide a service. Nor may a fiduciary use such authority, control, or responsibility to cause a plan to enter into a transaction involving plan assets whereby such fiduciary (or a person in which such fiduciary has an interest which may affect the exercise of such fiduciary's best judgment as a fiduciary) will receive consideration from a third party in connection with such transaction. A person in which a fiduciary has an interest which may affect the exercise of such fiduciary's best judgment as a fiduciary includes, for example, a person who is a party in interest by reason of a relationship to such fiduciary described in section 3(14)(E), (F), (G), (H), or (I).
(2)
Transactions not described in section 406(b)(1).
A fiduciary does not engage in an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act if the fiduciary does not use any of the authority, control or responsibility which makes such person a fiduciary to cause a plan to pay additional fees for a service furnished by such fiduciary or to pay a fee for a service furnished by a person in which such fiduciary has an interest which may affect the exercise of such fiduciary's best judgment as a fiduciary. This may occur, for example, when one fiduciary is retained on behalf of a plan by a second fiduciary to provide a service for an additional fee. However, because the authority, control or responsibility which makes a person a fiduciary may be exercised “in effect” as well as in form, mere approval of the transaction by a second fiduciary does not mean that the first fiduciary has not used any of the authority, control or responsibility which makes such person a fiduciary to cause the plan to pay the first fiduciary an additional fee for a service. See paragraph (f) of this section.
(3)
Services without compensation.
If a fiduciary provides services to a plan without the receipt of compensation or other consideration (other than reimbursement of direct expenses properly and actually incurred in the performance of such services within the meaning of § 2550.408c-2(b)(3)), the provision of such services does not, in and of itself, constitute an act described in section 406(b) of the Act. The allowance of a deduction to an employer under section 162 or 212 of the Code for the expense incurred in furnishing office space or services to a plan established or maintained by such employer does not constitute compensation or other consideration.
(f)
Examples.
The provisions of § 2550.408b-2(e) may be illustrated by the following examples.

# Example 1.
E, an employer whose employees are covered by plan P, is a fiduciary of P. I is a professional investment adviser in which E has no interest which may affect the exercise of E's best judgment as a fiduciary. E causes P to retain I to provide certain kinds of investment advisory services of a type which causes I to be a fiduciary of P under section 3(21)(A)(ii) of the Act. thereafter, I proposes to perform for additional fees portfolio evaluation services in addition to the services currently provided. The provision of such services is arranged by I and approved on behalf of the plan by E. I has not engaged in an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act, because I did not use any of the authority, control or responsibility which makes I a fiduciary (the provision of investment advisory services) to cause the plan to pay I additional fees for the provision of the portfolio evaluation services. E has not engaged in an act which is described in section 406(b)(1). E, as the fiduciary who has the responsibility to be prudent in his selection and retention of I and the other investment advisers of the plan, has an interest in the purchase by the plan of portfolio evaluation services. However, such an interest is not an interest which may affect the exercise of E's best judgment as a fiduciary.

# Example 2.
D, a trustee of plan P with discretion over the management and disposition of plan assets, relies on the advice of C, a consultant to P, as to the investment of plan assets, thereby making C a fiduciary of the plan. On January 1, 1978, C recommends to D that the plan purchase an insurance policy from U, an insurance company which is not
a party in interest with respect to P. C thoroughly explains the reasons for the recommendation and makes a full disclosure concerning the fact that C will receive a commission from U upon the purchase of the policy of P. D considers the recommendation and approves the purchase of the policy by P. C receives a commission. Under such circumstances, C has engaged in an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act (as well as sections 406(b)(2) and (3) of the Act) because C is in fact exercising the authority, control or responsibility which makes C a fiduciary to cause the plan to purchase the policy. However, the transaction is exempt from the prohibited transaction provisions of section 406 of the Act, if the requirements of Prohibited Transaction Exemption 77-9 are met.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in Example (2) except that the nature of C's relationship with the plan is not such that C is a fiduciary of P. The purchase of the insurance policy does not involve an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act (or sections 406(b)(2) or (3) of the Act) because such sections only apply to acts by fiduciaries.

# Example 4.
E, an employer whose employees are covered by plan P, is a fiduciary with respect to P. A, who is not a party in interest with respect to P, persuades E that the plan needs the services of a professional investment adviser and that A should be hired to provide the investment advice. Accordingly, E causes P to hire A to provide investment advice of the type which makes A a fiduciary under § 2510.3-21(c)(1)(ii)(B). Prior to the expiration of A's first contract with P, A persuades E to cause P to renew A's contract with P to provide the same services for additional fees in view of the increased costs in providing such services. During the period of A's second contract, A provides additional investment advice services for which no additional charge is made. Prior to the expiration of A's second contract, A persuades E to cause P to renew his contract for additional fees in view of the additional services A is providing. A has not engaged in an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act, because A has not used any of the authority, control or responsibility which makes A a fiduciary (the provision of investment advice) to cause the plan to pay additional fees for A's services.

# Example 5.
F, a trustee of plan P with discretion over the management and disposition of plan assets, retains C to provide administrative services to P of the type which makes C a fiduciary under section 3(21)(A)(iii). Thereafter, C retains F to provide for additional fees actuarial and various kinds of administrative services in addition to the services F is currently providing to P. Both F and C have engaged in an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act. F, regardless of any intent which he may have had at the time he retained C, has engaged in such an act because F has, in effect, exercised the authority, control or responsibility which makes F a fiduciary to cause the plan to pay F additional fees for the services. C, whose continued employment by P depends on F, has also engaged in such an act, because C has an interest in the transaction which might affect the exercise of C's best judgment as a fiduciary. As a result, C has dealt with plan assets in his own interest under section 406(b)(1).

# Example 6.
F, a fiduciary of plan P with discretionary authority respecting the management of P, retains S, the son of F, to provide for a fee various kinds of administrative services necessary for the operation of the plan. F has engaged in an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act because S is a person in whom F has an interest which may affect the exercise of F's best judgment as a fiduciary. Such act is not exempt under section 408(b)(2) of the Act irrespective of whether the provision of the services by S is exempt.

# Example 7.
T, one of the trustees of plan P, is president of bank B. The bank proposes to provide administrative services to P for a fee. T physically absents himself from all consideration of B's proposal and does not otherwise exercise any of the authority, control or responsibility which makes T a fiduciary to cause the plan to retain B. The other trustees decide to retain B. T has not engaged in an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act. Further, the other trustees have not engaged in an act described in section 406(b)(1) merely because T is on the board of trustees of P. This fact alone would not make them have an interest in the transaction which might affect the exercise of their best judgment as fiduciaries.
[42 FR 32390, June 24, 1977, as amended at 75 FR 41635, July 16, 2010; 77 FR 5655, Feb. 3, 2012; 77 FR 41680, July 16, 2012]
§ 2550.408b-3
Loans to Employee Stock Ownership Plans.
(a)
Definitions.
When used in this section, the terms listed below have the following meanings:
(1)
ESOP.
The term
ESOP
refers to an employee stock ownership plan that meets the requirements of section 407(d)(6) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) and 29 CFR 2550.407d-6. It is not synonymous with “stock bonus plan.” A stock bonus plan must, however, be an ESOP to engage in an exempt loan. The qualification of an ESOP under section 401 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code) and 26 CFR 54.4975-11 will
not be adversely affected merely because it engages in a non-exempt loan.
(2)
Loan.
The term
loan
refers to a loan made to an ESOP by a party in interest or a loan to an ESOP which is guaranteed by a party in interest. It includes a direct loan of cash, a purchase-money transaction, and an assumption of the obligation of an ESOP. “Guarantee” includes an unsecured guarantee and the use of assets of a party in interest as collateral for a loan, even though the use of assets may not be a guarantee under applicable state law. An amendment of a loan in order to qualify as an exempt loan is not a refinancing of the loan or the making of another loan.
(3)
Exempt loan.
The term
exempt loan
refers to a loan that satisfies the provisions of this section. A “non-exempt loan” is one that fails to satisfy such provisions.
(4)
Publicly traded.
The term
publicly traded
refers to a security that is listed on a national securities exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f) or that is quoted on a system sponsored by a national securities association registered under section 15A(b) of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o).
(5)
Qualifying employer security.
The term
qualifying employer security
reters to a security described in 29 CFR 2550.407d-5.
(b)
Statutory exemption
—(1)
Scope.
Section 408(b)(3) of the Act provides an exemption from the prohibited transaction provisions of sections 406(a) and 406(b)(1) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries dealing with the assets of plans in their own interest or for their own account) and 406(b)(2) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries in their individual or in any other capacity acting in any transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party (or representing a party) whose interests are adverse to the interests of the plan or the interests of its participants or beneficiaries). Section 408(b)(3) does not provide an exemption from the prohibitions of section 406(b)(3) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries receiving consideration for their own personal account from any party dealing with a plan in connection with a transaction involving the income or assets of the plan).
(2)
Special scrutiny of transaction.
The exemption under section 408(b)(3) includes within its scope certain transaction in which the potential for self-dealing by fiduciaries exists and in which the interests of fiduciaries may conflict with the interests of participants. To guard against these potential abuses, the Department of Labor will subject these transactions to special scrutiny to ensure that they are primarily for the benefit of participants and their beneficiaries. Although the transactions need not be arranged and approved by an independent fiduciary, fiduciaries are cautioned to scrupulously exercise their discretion in approving them. For example, fiduciaries should be prepared to demonstrate compliance with the net effect test and the arm's-length standard under paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. Also, fiduciaries should determine that the transaction is truly arranged primarily in the interest of participants and their beneficiaries rather than, for example, in the interest of certain selling shareholders.
(c)
Primary benefit requirements
—(1)
In general.
An exempt loan must be primarily for the benefit of the ESOP participants and their beneficiaries. All the surrounding facts and circumstances, including those described in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, will be considered in determining whether such loan satisfies this requirement. However, no loan will satisfy such requirement unless it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section.
(2)
Net effect on plan assets.
At the time that a loan is made, the interest rate for the loan and the price of securities to be acquired with the loan proceeds should not be such that plan assets might be drained off.
(3)
Arm's-length standard.
The terms of a loan, whether or not between independent parties, must, at the time the loan is made, be at least as favorable to the ESOP as the terms of a comparable loan resulting from arm's-length negotiations between independent parties.
(d)
Use of loan proceeds.
The proceeds of an exempt loan must be used, within a reasonable time after their receipt,
by the borrowing ESOP only for any or all of the following purposes:
(1) To acquire qualifying employer securities.
(2) To repay such loan.
(3) To repay a prior exempt loan. A new loan, the proceeds of which are so used, must satisfy the provisions of this section.
Except as provided in paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section or as otherwise required by applicable law, no security acquired with the proceeds of an exempt loan may be subject to a put, call, or other option, or buy-sell or similar arrangement while held by and when distributed from a plan, whether or not the plan is then ESOP.
(e)
Liability and collateral of ESOP for loan.
An exempt loan must be without recourse against the ESOP. Furthermore, the only assets of the ESOP that may be given as collateral on an exempt loan are qualifying employer securities of two classes: Those acquired with the proceeds of the exempt loan and those that were used as collateral on a prior exempt loan repaid with the proceeds of the current exempt loan. No person entitled to payment under the exempt loan shall have any right to assets of the ESOP other than:
(1) Collateral given for the loan,
(2) Contributions (other than contributions of employer securities) that are made under an ESOP to meet its obligations under the loan, and
(3) Earnings attributable to such collateral and the investment of such contributions.
The payments made with respect to an exempt loan by the ESOP during a plan year must not exceed an amount equal to the sum of such contributions and earnings received during or prior to the year less such payments in prior years. Such contributions and earnings must be accounted for separately in the books of account of the ESOP until the loan is repaid.
(f)
Default.
In the event of default upon an exempt loan, the value of plan assets transferred in satisfaction of the loan must not exceed the amount of default. If the lender is a party in interest, a loan must provide for a transfer of plan assets upon default only upon and to the extent of the failure of the plan to meet the payment schedule of the loan. For purposes of this paragraph, the making of a guarantee does not make a person a lender.
(g)
Reasonable rate of interest.
The interest rate of a loan must not be in excess of a reasonable rate of interest. All relevant factors will be considered in determining a reasonable rate of interest, including the amount and duration of the loan, the security and guarantee (if any) involved, the credit standing of the ESOP and the guarantor (if any), and the interest rate prevailing for comparable loans. When these factors are considered, a variable interest rate may be reasonable.
(h)
Release from encumbrance
—(1)
General rule.
In general, an exempt loan must provide for the release from encumbrance of plan assets used as collateral for the loan under this paragraph. For each plan year during the duration of the loan, the number of securities released must equal the number of encumbered securities held immediately before release for the current plan year multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the amount of principal and interest paid for the year. The denominator of the fraction is the sum of the numerator plus the principal and interest to be paid for all future years. See § 2550.408b-3(h)(4). The number of future years under the loan must be definitely ascertainable and must be determined without taking into account any possible extensions or renewal periods. If the interest rate under the loan is variable, the interest to be paid in future years must be computed by using the interest rate applicable as of the end of the plan year. If collateral includes more than one class of securities, the number of securities of each class to be released for a plan year must be determined by applying the same fraction to each class.
(2)
Special rule.
A loan will not fail to be exempt merely because the number of securities to be released from encumbrance is determined solely with reference to principal payments. However, if release is determined with reference to principal payments only, the following three additional rules apply. The first rule is that the loan must provide for annual payments of principal and interest at a cumulative rate
that is not less rapid at any time than level annual payments of such amounts for 10 years. The second rule is that interest included in any payment is disregarded only to the extent that it would be determined to be interest under standard loan amortization tables. The third rule is that subdivision (2) is not applicable from the time that, by reason of a renewal, extension, or refinancing, the sum of the expired duration of the exempt loan, the renewal period, the extension period, and the duration of a new exempt loan exceeds 10 years.
(3)
Caution against plan disqualification.
Under an exempt loan, the number of securities released from encumbrance may vary from year to year. The release of securities depends upon certain employer contributions and earnings under the ESOP. Under 26 CFR 54.4975-11(d)(2) actual allocations to participants' accounts are based upon assets withdrawn from the suspense account. Nevertheless, for purposes of applying the limitations under section 415 of the Code to these allocations, under 26 CFR 54.4975-11(a)(8)(ii) contributions used by the ESOP to pay the loan are treated as annual additions to participants' accounts. Therefore, particular caution must be exercised to avoid exceeding the maximum annual additions under section 415 of the Code. At the same time, release from encumbrance in annually varying numbers may reflect a failure on the part of the employer to make substantial and recurring contributions to the ESOP which will lead to loss of qualification under section 401(a) of the Code. The Internal Revenue Service will observe closely the operation of ESOPs that release encumbered securities in varying annual amounts, particularly those that provide for the deferral of loan payments or for balloon payments. See 26 CFR 54.4975-7(b)(8)(iii).
(4)
Illustration.
The general rule under paragraph (h)(1) of this section operates as illustrated in the following examples:

# Example.
Corporation X establishes an ESOP that borrows $750,000 from a bank. X guarantees the loan which is for 15 years at 5% interest and is payable in level annual amounts of $72,256.72. Total payments on the loan are $1,083,850.80. The ESOP uses the entire proceeds of the loan to acquire 15,000 shares of X stock which is used as collateral for the loan. The number of securities to be released for the first year is 1,000 shares,
i.e.
, 15,000 shares × $72,256.72/$1,083,850.80 = 15,000 shares ×
1/15
. The number of securities to be released for the second year is 1,000 shares,
i.e.
, 14,000 shares × $72,256.72/$1,011,594.08 = 14,000 shares ×
1/14
. If all loan payments are made as originally scheduled, the number of securities released in each succeeding year of the loan will also be 1,000.
(i)
Right of first refusal.
Qualifying employer securities acquired with proceeds of an exempt loan may, but need not, be subject to a right of first refusal. However, any such right must meet the requirements of this paragraph. Securities subject to such right must be stock or an equity security, or a debt security convertible into stock or an equity security. Also, they must not be publicly traded at the time the right may be exercised. The right of first refusal must be in favor of the employer, the ESOP, or both in any order of priority. The selling price and other terms under the right must not be less favorable to the seller than the greater of the value of the security determined under 26 CFR 54.4975-11(d)(5), or the purchase price and other terms offered by a buyer, other than the employer or the ESOP, making a good faith offer to purchase the security. The right of first refusal must lapse no later than 14 days after the security holder gives written notice to the holder of the right that an offer by a third party to purchase the security has been received.
(j)
Put option.
A qualifying employer security acquired with the proceeds of an exempt loan by an ESOP after September 30, 1976, must be subject to a put option if it is not publicly traded when distributed or if it is subject to a trading limitation when distributed. For purposes of this paragraph, a “trading limitation” or a security is a restriction under any Federal or State securities law or any regulation thereunder, or an agreement (not prohibited by this section) affecting the security which would make the security not as freely tradeable as one not subject to such restriction. The put option must be exercisable only by a participant, by the participant's donees, or by a person
(including an estate or its distributee) to whom the security passes by reason of a participant's death. (Under this paragraph “participant” means a participant and the beneficiaries of the participant under the ESOP.) The put option must permit a participant to put the security to the employer. Under no circumstances may the put option bind the ESOP. However, it may grant the ESOP an option to assume the rights and obligations of the employer at the time that the put option is exercised. If it is known at the time a loan is made that Federal or state law will be violated by the employer's honoring such put option, the put option must permit the security to be put, in a manner consistent with such law, to a third party (e.g., an affiliate of the employer or a shareholder other than the ESOP) that has substantial net worth at the time the loan is made and whose net worth is reasonably expected to remain substantial.
(k)
Duration of put option
—(1)
General rule.
A put option must be exercisable at least during a 15-month period which begins the date the security subject to the put option is distributed by the ESOP.
(2)
Special rule.
In the case of a security that is publicly traded without restriction when distributed but ceases to be so traded within 15 months after distribution, the employer must notify each security holder in writing on or before the tenth day after the date the security ceases to be so traded that for the remainder of the 15-month period the security is subject to a put option. The number of days between the tenth day and the date on which notice is actually given, if later than the tenth day, must be added to the duration of the put option. The notice must inform distributees of the terms of the put options that they are to hold. The terms must satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (j) through (l) of this section.
(l)
Other put option provisions
—(1)
Manner of exercise.
A put option is exercised by the holder notifying the employer in writing that the put option is being exercised.
(2)
Time excluded from duration of put option.
The period during which a put option is exercisable does not include any time when a distributee is unable to exercise it because the party bound by the put option is prohibited from honoring it by applicable Federal or State law.
(3)
Price.
The price at which a put option must be exercisable is the value of the security, determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of 26 CFR 54.4975-11.
(4)
Payment terms.
The provisions for payment under a put option must be reasonable. The deferral of payment is reasonable if adequate security and a reasonable interest rate are provided for any credit extended and if the cumulative payments at any time are no less than the aggregate of reasonable periodic payments as of such time. Periodic payments are reasonable if annual installments, beginning with 30 days after the date the put option is exercised, are substantially equal. Generally, the payment period may not end more than 5 years after the date the put option is exercised. However, it may be extended to a date no later than the earlier of 10 years from the date the put option is exercised or the date the proceeds of the loan used by the ESOP to acquire the security subject to such put option are entirely repaid.
(5)
Payment restrictions.
Payment under a put option may be restricted by the terms of a loan, including one used to acquire a security subject to a put option, made before November 1, 1977. Otherwise, payment under a put option must not be restricted by the provisions of a loan or any other arrangement, including the terms of the employer's articles of incorporation, unless so required by applicable state law.
(m)
Other terms of loan.
An exempt loan must be for a specific term. Such loan may not be payable at the demand of any person, except in the case of default.
(n)
Status of plan as ESOP.
To be exempt, a loan must be made to a plan that is an ESOP at the time of such loan. However, a loan to a plan formally designated as an ESOP at the time of the loan that fails to be an ESOP because it does not comply with section 401(a) of the Code or 26 CFR 54.4975-11 will be exempt as of the time of such loan if the plan is amended
retroactively under section 401(b) of the Code or 26 CFR 54.4975-11(a)(4).
(o)
Special rules for certain loans
—(1)
Loans made before January 1, 1976.
A loan made before January 1, 1976, or made afterwards under a binding agreement in effect on January 1, 1976 (or under renewals permitted by the terms of such an agreement on that date) is exempt for the entire period of such loan if it otherwise satisfies the provisions of this section for such period, even though it does not satisfy the following provisions of this section:
(i) The last sentence of paragraph (d);
(ii) Paragraphs (e), (f), and (h)(1) and (2); and
(iii) Paragraphs (i) through (m), inclusive.
(2)
Loans made after December 31, 1975, but before November 1, 1977.
A loan made after December 31, 1975, but before November 1, 1977, or made afterwards under a binding agreement in effect on November 1, 1977 (or under renewals permitted by the terms of such an agreement on that date) is exempt for the entire period of such loan if it otherwise satisfies the provisions of this section for such period even though it does not satisfy the following provisions of this section:
(i) Paragraph (f);
(ii) The three provisions of paragraph (h)(2); and
(iii) Paragraph (i).
(3)
Release rule.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (o)(1) and (2) of this section, if the proceeds of a loan are used to acquire securities after November 1, 1977, the loan must comply by such date with the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section.
(4)
Default rule.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (o)(1) and (2) of this section, a loan by a party in interest other than a guarantor must satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. A loan will satisfy these requirements if it is retroactively amended before November 1, 1977, to satisfy these requirements.
(5)
Put option rule.
With respect to a security distributed before November 1, 1977, the put option provisions of paragraphs (j), (k), and (l) of this section will be deemed satisfied as of the date the security is distributed if by December 31, 1977, the security is subject to a put option satisfying such provisions. For purposes of satisfying such provisions, the security will be deemed distributed on the date the put option is issued. However, the put option provisions need not be satisfied with respect to a security that is not owned on November 1, 1977, by a person in whose hands a put option must be exercisable.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1210-0046)
[42 FR 44385, Sept. 2, 1977; 42 FR 45907, Sept. 13, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984]
§ 2550.408b-4
Statutory exemption for investments in deposits of banks or similar financial institutions.
(a)
In general.
Section 408(b)(4) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) exempts from the prohibitions of section 406 of the Act the investment of all or a part of a plan's assets in deposits bearing a reasonable rate of interest in a bank or similar financial institution supervised by the United States or a State, even though such bank or similar financial insitution is a fiduciary or other party in interest with respect to the plan, if the conditions of either § 2550.408b-4(b)(1) or § 2550.408b-4(b)(2) are met. Section 408(b)(4) provides an exemption from sections 406(b)(1) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries dealing with the assets of plans in their own interest or for their own account) and 406(b)(2) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries in their individual or in any other capacity acting in any transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party (or representing a party) whose interests are adverse to the interests of the plan or the interests of its participants or beneficiaries), as well as section 406(a)(1), because section 408(b)(4) contemplates a bank or similar financial institution causing a plan for which it acts as a fiduciary to invest plan assets in its own deposits if the requirements of section 408(b)(4) are met. However, it does not provide an exemption from section 406(b)(3) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries receiving consideration for their own personal account from any party dealing with a plan in connection with a transaction involving the assets of the plan). The receipt of such consideration is a separate transaction not
described in the statutory exemption. Section 408(b)(4) does not contain an exemption from other provisions of the Act, such as section 404, or other provisions of law which may impose requirements or restrictions relating to the transactions which are exempt under section 408(b)(4) of the Act. See, for example, section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (Code). The provisions of section 408(b)(4) of the Act are further limited by section 408(d) of the Act (relating to transactions with owner-employees and related persons).
(b)(1)
Plan covering own employees.
Such investment may be made if the plan is one which covers only the employees of the bank or similar financial institution, the employees of any of its affiliates, or the employees of both.
(2)
Other plans.
Such investment may be made if the investment is expressly authorized by a provision of the plan or trust instrument or if the investment is expressly authorized (or made) by a fiduciary of the plan (other than the bank or similar financial institution or any of its affiliates) who has authority to make such investments, or to instruct the trustee or other fiduciary with respect to investments, and who has no interest in the transaction which may affect the exercise of such authorizing fiduciary's best judgment as a fiduciary so as to cause such authorization to consititute an act described in section 406(b) of the Act. Any authorization to make investments contained in a plan or trust instrument will satisfy the requirement of express authorization for investments made prior to November 1, 1977. Effective November 1, 1977, in the case of a bank or similar financial institution that invests plan assets in deposits in itself or its affiliates under an authorization contained in a plan or trust instrument, such authorization must name such bank or similar financial institution and must state that such bank or similar financial institution may make investments in deposits which bear a reasonable rate of interest in itself (or in an affiliate).
(3)
Example.
B, a bank, is the trustee of plan P's assets. The trust instruments give the trustees the right to invest plan assets in its discretion. B invests in the certificates of deposit of bank C, which is a fiduciary of the plan by virtue of performing certain custodial and administrative services. The authorization is sufficient for the plan to make such investment under section 408(b)(4). Further, such authorization would suffice to allow B to make investments in deposits in itself prior to November 1, 1977. However, subsequent to October 31, 1977, B may not invest in deposits in itself, unless the plan or trust instrument specifically authorizes it to invest in deposits of B.
(c)
Definitions.
(1) The term
bank or similar financial institution
includes a bank (as defined in section 581 of the Code), a domestic building and loan association (as defined in section 7701(a)(19) of the Code), and a credit union (as defined in section 101(6) of the Federal Credit Union Act).
(2) A person is an affiliate of a bank or similar financial institution if such person and such bank or similar financial institution would be treated as members of the same controlled group of corporations or as members of two or more trades or businesses under common control within the meaning of section 414 (b) or (c) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
(3) The term
deposits
includes any account, temporary or otherwise, upon which a reasonable rate of interest is paid, including a certificate of deposit issued by a bank or similar financial institution.
[42 FR 32392, June 24, 1977; 42 FR 36823, July 18, 1977]
§ 2550.408b-6
Statutory exemption for ancillary services by a bank or similar financial institution.
(a)
In general.
Section 408(b)(6) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) exempts from the prohibitions of section 406 of the Act the provision of certain ancillary services by a bank or similar financial institution (as defined in § 2550.408b-4(c)(1) supervised by the United States or a State to a plan for which it acts as a fiduciary if the conditions of § 2550.408b-6(b) are met. Such ancillary services include services which do not meet the requirements of section 408(b)(2) of the Act because the provision of such services involves an act described in section 406(b)(1) of the Act
(relating to fiduciaries dealing with the assets of plans in their own interest or for their own account) by the fiduciary bank or similar financial institution or an act described in section 406(b)(2) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries in their individual or in any other capacity acting in any transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party (or representing a party) whose interests are adverse to the interests of the plan or the interests of its participants or beneficiaries). Section 408(b)(6) provides an exemption from sections 406(b)(1) and (2) because section 408(b)(6) contemplates the provision of such ancillary services without the approval of a second fiduciary (as described in § 2550.408b-2(e)(2)) if the conditions of § 2550.408b-6(b) are met. Thus, for example, plan assets held by a fiduciary bank which are reasonably expected to be needed to satisfy current plan expenses may be placed by the bank in a non-interest-bearing checking account in the bank if the conditions of § 2550.408b-6(b) are met, notwithstanding the provisions of section 408(b)(4) of the Act (relating to investments in bank deposits). However, section 408(b)(6) does not provide an exemption for an act described in section 406(b)(3) of the Act (relating to fiduciaries receiving consideration for their own personal account from any party dealing with a plan in connection with a transaction involving the assets of the plan). The receipt of such consideration is a separate transaction not described in section 408(b)(6). Section 408(b)(6) does not contain an exemption from other provisions of the Act, such as section 404, or other provisions of law which may impose requirements or restrictions relating to the transactions which are exempt under section 408(b)(6) of the Act. See, for example, section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The provisions of section 408(b)(6) of the Act are further limited by section 408(d) of the Act (relating to transactions with owner-employees and related persons).
(b)
Conditions.
Such service must be provided—
(1) At not more than reasonable compensation;
(2) Under adequate internal safeguards which assure that the provision of such service is consistent with sound banking and financial practice, as determined by Federal or State supervisory authority; and
(3) Only to the extent that such service is subject to specific guidelines issued by the bank or similar financial institution which meet the requirements of § 2550.408b-6(c).
[42 FR 32392, June 24, 1977; 42 FR 36823, July 18, 1977]
§ 2550.408b-19
Statutory exemption for cross-trading of securities.
(a)
In general.
(1) Section 408(b)(19) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) exempts from the prohibitions of section 406(a)(1)(A) and 406(b)(2) of the Act any cross-trade of securities if certain conditions are satisfied. Among other conditions, the exemption requires that the investment manager adopt, and effect cross-trades in accordance with, written cross-trading policies and procedures that are fair and equitable to all accounts participating in the cross-trading program, and that include:
(i) A description of the investment manager's pricing policies and procedures; and
(ii) The investment manager's policies and procedures for allocating cross-trades in an objective manner among accounts participating in the cross-trading program.
(2) Section 4975(d)(22) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code) contains parallel provisions to section 408(b)(19) of the Act. Effective December 31, 1978, section 102 of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978, 5 U.S.C. App. 214 (2000 ed.), transferred the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to promulgate regulations of the type published herein to the Secretary of Labor. Therefore, all references herein to section 408(b)(19) of the Act should be read to include reference to the parallel provisions of section 4975(d)(22) of the Code.
(3) Section 408(b)(19)(D) of the Act requires that a plan fiduciary for each plan participating in the cross-trades receive in advance of any cross-trades disclosure regarding the conditions under which the cross-trades may take place, including the written policies and procedures described in section
408(b)(19)(H) of the Act. This disclosure must be in a document that is separate from any other agreement or disclosure involving the asset management relationship. For purposes of section 408(b)(19)(D) of the Act, the policies and procedures furnished to the authorizing fiduciary must conform with the requirements of this regulation.
(4) The standards set forth in this section apply solely for purposes of determining whether an investment manager's written policies and procedures satisfy the content requirements of section 408(b)(19)(H) of the Act. Accordingly, such standards do not determine whether the investment manager satisfies the other requirements for relief under section 408(b)(19) of the Act.
(b)(1)
Policies and procedures.
In general.
This paragraph specifies the content of the written policies and procedures required to be adopted by an investment manager and disclosed to the plan fiduciary prior to authorizing cross-trading in order for transactions to qualify for relief under section 408(b)(19) of the Act.
(2)
Style and format.
The content of the policies and procedures required by this paragraph must be clear and concise and written in a manner calculated to be understood by the plan fiduciary authorizing cross-trading. Although no specific format is required for the investment manager's written policies and procedures, the information contained in the policies and procedures must be sufficiently detailed to facilitate a periodic review by the compliance officer of the cross-trades and a determination by such compliance officer that the cross-trades comply with the investment manager's written cross-trading policies and procedures.
(3)
Content
(i). An investment manager's policies and procedures must be fair and equitable to all accounts participating in its cross-trading program and reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of section 408(b)(19)(H) of the Act. Such policies and procedures must include:
(A) A statement of policy which describes the criteria that will be applied by the investment manager in determining that execution of a securities transaction as a cross-trade will be beneficial to both parties to the transaction;
(B) A description of how the investment manager will determine that cross-trades are effected at the independent “current market price” of the security (within the meaning of section 270.17a-7(b) of Title 17, Code of Federal Regulations and SEC no-action and interpretative letters thereunder) as required by section 408(b)(19)(B) of the Act, including the identity of sources used to establish such price;
(C) A description of the procedures for ensuring compliance with the $100,000,000 minimum asset size requirement of section 408(b)(19). A plan or master trust will satisfy the minimum asset size requirement as to a transaction if it satisfies the requirement upon its initial participation in the cross-trading program and on an annual basis thereafter;
(D) A statement that any investment manager participating in a cross-trading program will have conflicting loyalties and responsibilities to the parties involved in any cross-trade transaction and a description of how the investment manager will mitigate such conflicts;
(E) A requirement that the investment manager allocate cross-trades among accounts in an objective and equitable manner and a description of the allocation method(s) available to and used by the investment manager for assuring an objective allocation among accounts participating in the cross-trading program. If more than one allocation methodology may be used by the investment manager, a description of what circumstances will dictate the use of a particular methodology;
(F) Identification of the compliance officer responsible for periodically reviewing the investment manager's compliance with section 408(b)(19)(H) of the Act and a statement of the compliance officer's qualifications for this position;
(G) A statement that the cross-trading statutory exemption under section 408(b)(19) of the Act requires satisfaction of several objective conditions in addition to the requirements that the investment manager adopt and effect cross-trades in accordance with written
cross-trading policies and procedures; and
(H) A statement which specifically describes the scope of the annual review conducted by the compliance officer.
(ii) Nothing herein is intended to preclude an investment manager from including such other policies and procedures not required by this regulation as the investment manager may determine appropriate to comply with the requirements of section 408(b)(19).
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
“account”
includes any single customer or pooled fund or account.
(2) The term
“compliance officer”
means an individual designated by the investment manager who is responsible for periodically reviewing the cross-trades made for the plan to ensure compliance with the investment manager's written cross-trading policies and procedures and the requirements of section 408(b)(19)(H) of the Act.
(3) The term
“plan fiduciary”
means a person described in section 3(21)(A) of the Act with respect to a plan (other than the investment manager engaging in the cross-trades or an affiliate) who has the authority to authorize a plan's participation in an investment manager's cross-trading program.
(4) The term
“investment manager”
means a person described in section 3(38) of the Act.
(5) The term
“plan”
means any employee benefit plan as described in section 3(3) of the Act to which Title I of the Act applies or any plan defined in section 4975(e)(1) of the Code.
(6) The term
“cross-trade”
means the purchase and sale of a security between a plan and any other account managed by the same investment manager.
[73 FR 58458, Oct. 7, 2008]
§ 2550.408c-2
Compensation for services.
(a)
In general.
Section 408(b)(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) refers to the payment of reasonable compensation by a plan to a party in interest for services rendered to the plan. Section 408(c)(2) of the Act and §§ 2550.408c-2(b)(1) through 2550.408c-2(b)(4) clarify what constitutes reasonable compensation for such services.
(b)(1)
General rule.
Generally, whether compensation is “reasonable” under sections 408 (b)(2) and (c)(2) of the Act depends on the particular facts and circumstances of each case.
(2)
Payments to certain fiduciaries.
Under sections 408(b)(2) and 408(c)(2) of the Act, the term “reasonable compensation” does not include any compensation to a fiduciary who is already receiving full-time pay from an employer or association of employers (any of whose employees are participants in the plan) or from an employee organization (any of whose members are participants in the plan), except for the reimbursement of direct expenses properly and actually incurred and not otherwise reimbursed. The restrictions of this paragraph (b)(2) do not apply to a party in interest who is not a fiduciary.
(3)
Certain expenses not direct expenses.
An expense is not a direct expense to the extent it would have been sustained had the service not been provided or if it represents an allocable portion of overhead costs.
(4)
Expense advances.
Under sections 408(b)(2) and 408(c)(2) of the Act, the term “reasonable compensation,” as applied to a fiduciary or an employee of a plan, includes an advance to such a fiduciary or employee by the plan to cover direct expenses to be properly and actually incurred by such person in the performance of such person's duties with the plan if:
(i) The amount of such advance is reasonable with respect to the amount of the direct expense which is likely to be properly and actually incurred in the immediate future (such as during the next month); and
(ii) The fiduciary or employee accounts to the plan at the end of the period covered by the advance for the expenses properly and actually incurred.
(5)
Excessive compensation.
Under sections 408(b)(2) and 408(c)(2) of the Act, any compensation which would be considered excessive under 26 CFR 1.162-7 (Income Tax Regulations relating to compensation for personal services which consitutes an ordinary and necessary trade or business expense) will
not be “reasonable compensation.” Depending upon the facts and circumstances of the particular situation, compensation which is not excessive under 26 CFR 1.162-7 may, nevertheless, not be “reasonable compensation” within the meaning of sections 408(b)(2) and 408 (c)(2) of the Act.
[42 FR 32393, June 24, 1977]
§ 2550.408e
Statutory exemption for acquisition or sale of qualifying employer securities and for acquisition, sale, or lease of qualifying employer real property.
(a)
General.
Section 408(e) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) exempts from the prohibitions of section 406(a) and 406(b)(1) and (2) of the Act any acquisition or sale by a plan of qualifying employer securities (as defined in section 407(d)(5) of the Act), or any acquisition, sale or lease by a plan of qualifying employer real property (as defined in section 407(d)(4) of the Act) if certain conditions are met. The conditions are that:
(1) The acquisition, sale or lease must be for adequate consideration (which is defined in paragraph (d) of this section);
(2) No commission may be charged directly or indirectly to the plan with respect to the transaction; and
(3) In the case of an acquisition or lease of qualifying employer real property, or an acquisition of qualifying employer securities, by a plan other than an eligible individual account plan (as defined in section 407(d)(3) of the Act), the acquisition or lease must comply with the requirements of section 407(a) of the Act.
(b)
Acquisition.
For purposes of section 408(e) and this section, an acquisition by a plan of qualifying employer securities or qualifying employer real property shall include, but not be limited to, an acquisition by purchase, by the exchange of plan assets, by the exercise of warrants or rights, by the conversion of a security, by default of a loan where the qualifying employer security or qualifying employer real property was security for the loan, or in connection with the contribution of such securities or real property to the plan. However, an acquisition of a security shall not be deemed to have occurred if a plan acquires the security as a result of a stock dividend or stock split.
(c)
Sale.
For purposes of section 408(e) and this section, a sale of qualifying employer real property or qualifying employer securities shall include any disposition for value.
(d)
Adequate consideration.
For purposes of section 408(e) and this section, adequate consideration means:
(1) In the case of a marketable obligation, a price not less favorable to the plan than the price determined under section 407(e)(1) of the Act; and
(2) In all other cases, a price not less favorable to the plan than the price determined under section 3(18) of the Act.
(e)
Commission.
For purposes of section 408(e) and this section, the term “commission” includes any fee, commission or similar charge paid in connection with a transaction, except that the term “commission” does not include a charge incurred for the purpose of enabling the appropriate plan fiduciaries to evaluate the desirability of entering into a transaction to which this section would apply, such as an appraisal or investment advisory fee.
[45 FR 51197, Aug. 1, 1980]
§ 2550.408g-1
Investment advice—participants and beneficiaries.
(a)
In general.
(1) This section provides relief from the prohibitions of section 406 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA or the Act), and section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), for certain transactions in connection with the provision of investment advice to participants and beneficiaries. This section, at paragraph (b), implements the statutory exemption set forth at sections 408(b)(14) and 408(g)(1) of ERISA and sections 4975(d)(17) and 4975(f)(8) of the Code. The requirements and conditions set forth in this section apply solely for the relief described in paragraph (b) of this section and, accordingly, no inferences should be drawn with respect to requirements applicable to the provision of investment advice not addressed by this section.
(2) Nothing contained in ERISA section 408(g)(1), Code section 4975(f)(8), or
this regulation imposes an obligation on a plan fiduciary or any other party to offer, provide or otherwise make available any investment advice to a participant or beneficiary.
(3) Nothing contained in ERISA section 408(g)(1), Code section 4975(f)(8), or this regulation invalidates or otherwise affects prior regulations, exemptions, interpretive or other guidance issued by the Department of Labor pertaining to the provision of investment advice and the circumstances under which such advice may or may not constitute a prohibited transaction under section 406 of ERISA or section 4975 of the Code.
(b)
Statutory exemption
—(1)
General.
Sections 408(b)(14) and 408(g)(1) of ERISA provide an exemption from the prohibitions of section 406 of ERISA for transactions described in section 408(b)(14) of ERISA in connection with the provision of investment advice to a participant or a beneficiary if the investment advice is provided by a fiduciary adviser under an “eligible investment advice arrangement.” Sections 4975(d)(17) and (f)(8) of the Code contain parallel provisions to ERISA sections 408(b)(14) and (g)(1).
(2)
Eligible investment advice.
For purposes of section 408(g)(1) of ERISA and section 4975(f)(8) of the Code, an “eligible investment advice arrangement” means an arrangement that meets either the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section or paragraph (b)(4) of this section, or both.
(3)
Arrangements that use fee leveling.
For purposes of this section, an arrangement is an eligible investment advice arrangement if—
(i)(A) Any investment advice is based on generally accepted investment theories that take into account the historic risks and returns of different asset classes over defined periods of time, although nothing herein shall preclude any investment advice from being based on generally accepted investment theories that take into account additional considerations;
(B) Any investment advice takes into account investment management and other fees and expenses attendant to the recommended investments;
(C) Any investment advice takes into account, to the extent furnished by a plan, participant or beneficiary, information relating to age, time horizons (e.g., life expectancy, retirement age), risk tolerance, current investments in designated investment options, other assets or sources of income, and investment preferences of the participant or beneficiary. A fiduciary adviser shall request such information, but nothing in this paragraph (b)(3)(i)(C) shall require that any investment advice take into account information requested, but not furnished by a participant or beneficiary, nor preclude requesting and taking into account additional information that a plan or participant or beneficiary may provide;
(D) No fiduciary adviser (including any employee, agent, or registered representative) that provides investment advice receives from any party (including an affiliate of the fiduciary adviser), directly or indirectly, any fee or other compensation (including commissions, salary, bonuses, awards, promotions, or other things of value) that varies depending on the basis of a participant's or beneficiary's selection of a particular investment option; and
(ii) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) and paragraph (d) of this section are met.
(4)
Arrangements that use computer models.
For purposes of this section, an arrangement is an eligible investment advice arrangement if the only investment advice provided under the arrangement is advice that is generated by a computer model described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section under an investment advice program and with respect to which the requirements of paragraphs (b)(5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) and paragraph (d) are met.
(i) A computer model shall be designed and operated to—
(A) Apply generally accepted investment theories that take into account the historic risks and returns of different asset classes over defined periods of time, although nothing herein shall preclude a computer model from applying generally accepted investment theories that take into account additional considerations;
(B) Take into account investment management and other fees and expenses attendant to the recommended investments;
(C) Appropriately weight the factors used in estimating future returns of investment options;
(D) Request from a participant or beneficiary and, to the extent furnished, utilize information relating to age, time horizons (e.g., life expectancy, retirement age), risk tolerance, current investments in designated investment options, other assets or sources of income, and investment preferences; provided, however, that nothing herein shall preclude a computer model from requesting and taking into account additional information that a plan or a participant or beneficiary may provide;
(E) Utilize appropriate objective criteria to provide asset allocation portfolios comprised of investment options available under the plan;
(F) Avoid investment recommendations that:
(
1
) Inappropriately favor investment options offered by the fiduciary adviser or a person with a material affiliation or material contractual relationship with the fiduciary adviser over other investment options, if any, available under the plan; or
(
2
) Inappropriately favor investment options that may generate greater income for the fiduciary adviser or a person with a material affiliation or material contractual relationship with the fiduciary adviser; and
(G)(
1
) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(G)(
2
) of this section, take into account all designated investment options, within the meaning of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, available under the plan without giving inappropriate weight to any investment option.
(
2
) A computer model shall not be treated as failing to meet the requirements of this paragraph merely because it does not make recommendations relating to the acquisition, holding or sale of an investment option that:
(
i
) Constitutes an annuity option with respect to which a participant or beneficiary may allocate assets toward the purchase of a stream of retirement income payments guaranteed by an insurance company, provided that, contemporaneous with the provision of investment advice generated by the computer model, the participant or beneficiary is also furnished a general description of such options and how they operate; or
(
ii
) The participant or beneficiary requests to be excluded from consideration in such recommendations.
(ii) Prior to utilization of the computer model, the fiduciary adviser shall obtain a written certification, meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, from an eligible investment expert, within the meaning of paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, that the computer model meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. If, following certification, a computer model is modified in a manner that may affect its ability to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i), the fiduciary adviser shall, prior to utilization of the modified model, obtain a new certification from an eligible investment expert that the computer model, as modified, meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i).
(iii) The term “eligible investment expert” means a person that, through employees or otherwise, has the appropriate technical training or experience and proficiency to analyze, determine and certify, in a manner consistent with paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, whether a computer model meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section; except that the term “eligible investment expert” does not include any person that: Has any material affiliation or material contractual relationship with the fiduciary adviser, with a person with a material affiliation or material contractual relationship with the fiduciary adviser, or with any employee, agent, or registered representative of the foregoing; or develops a computer model utilized by the fiduciary adviser to satisfy this paragraph (b)(4).
(iv) A certification by an eligible investment expert shall—
(A) Be in writing;
(B) Contain—
(
1
) An identification of the methodology or methodologies applied in determining whether the computer model meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section;
(
2
) An explanation of how the applied methodology or methodologies demonstrated that the computer model met the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section;
(
3
) A description of any limitations that were imposed by any person on the eligible investment expert's selection or application of methodologies for determining whether the computer model meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section;
(
4
) A representation that the methodology or methodologies were applied by a person or persons with the educational background, technical training or experience necessary to analyze and determine whether the computer model meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i); and
(
5
) A statement certifying that the eligible investment expert has determined that the computer model meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section; and
(C) Be signed by the eligible investment expert.
(v) The selection of an eligible investment expert as required by this section is a fiduciary act governed by section 404(a)(1) of ERISA.
(5)
Arrangement must be authorized by a plan fiduciary.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the arrangement pursuant to which investment advice is provided to participants and beneficiaries pursuant to this section must be expressly authorized by a plan fiduciary (or, in the case of an Individual Retirement Account (IRA), the IRA beneficiary) other than: The person offering the arrangement; any person providing designated investment options under the plan; or any affiliate of either. Provided, however, that for purposes of the preceding, in the case of an IRA, an IRA beneficiary will not be treated as an affiliate of a person solely by reason of being an employee of such person.
(ii) In the case of an arrangement pursuant to which investment advice is provided to participants and beneficiaries of a plan sponsored by the person offering the arrangement or a plan sponsored by an affiliate of such person, the authorization described in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section may be provided by the plan sponsor of such plan, provided that the person or affiliate offers the same arrangement to participants and beneficiaries of unaffiliated plans in the ordinary course of its business.
(iii) For purposes of the authorization described in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, a plan sponsor shall not be treated as a person providing a designated investment option under the plan merely because one of the designated investment options of the plan is an option that permits investment in securities of the plan sponsor or an affiliate.
(6)
Annual audit.
(i) The fiduciary adviser shall, at least annually, engage an independent auditor, who has appropriate technical training or experience and proficiency, and so represents in writing to the fiduciary adviser, to:
(A) Conduct an audit of the investment advice arrangements for compliance with the requirements of this section; and
(B) Within 60 days following completion of the audit, issue a written report to the fiduciary adviser and, except with respect to an arrangement with an IRA, to each fiduciary who authorized the use of the investment advice arrangement, in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section, that—
(
1
) Identifies the fiduciary adviser,
(
2
) Indicates the type of arrangement (
i.e.,
fee leveling, computer models, or both),
(
3
) If the arrangement uses computer models, or both computer models and fee leveling, indicates the date of the most recent computer model certification, and identifies the eligible investment expert that provided the certification, and
(
4
) Sets forth the specific findings of the auditor regarding compliance of the arrangement with the requirements of this section.
(ii) With respect to an arrangement with an IRA, the fiduciary adviser:
(A) Within 30 days following receipt of the report from the auditor, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(B) of this section, shall furnish a copy of the report to the IRA beneficiary or make such report available on its Web site, provided that such beneficiaries are
provided information, with the information required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b)(7) of this section, concerning the purpose of the report, and how and where to locate the report applicable to their account; and
(B) In the event that the report of the auditor identifies noncompliance with the requirements of this section, within 30 days following receipt of the report from the auditor, shall send a copy of the report to the Department of Labor at the following address: Investment Advice Exemption Notification, U.S. Department of Labor, Employee Benefits Security Administration, Room N-1513, 200 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20210, or submit a copy electronically to
InvAdvNotification@dol.gov.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), an auditor is considered independent if it does not have a material affiliation or material contractual relationship with the person offering the investment advice arrangement to the plan or with any designated investment options under the plan, and does not have any role in the development of the investment advice arrangement, or certification of the computer model utilized under the arrangement.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), the auditor shall review sufficient relevant information to formulate an opinion as to whether the investment advice arrangements, and the advice provided pursuant thereto, offered by the fiduciary adviser during the audit period were in compliance with this section. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude an auditor from using information obtained by sampling, as reasonably determined appropriate by the auditor, investment advice arrangements, and the advice pursuant thereto, during the audit period.
(v) The selection of an auditor for purposes of this paragraph (b)(6) is a fiduciary act governed by section 404(a)(1) of ERISA.
(7)
Disclosure to participants.
(i) The fiduciary adviser must provide, without charge, to a participant or a beneficiary before the initial provision of investment advice with regard to any security or other property offered as an investment option, a written notification of:
(A) The role of any party that has a material affiliation or material contractual relationship with the fiduciary adviser in the development of the investment advice program, and in the selection of investment options available under the plan;
(B) The past performance and historical rates of return of the designated investment options available under the plan, to the extent that such information is not otherwise provided;
(C) All fees or other compensation that the fiduciary adviser or any affiliate thereof is to receive (including compensation provided by any third party) in connection with—
(
1
) The provision of the advice;
(
2
) The sale, acquisition, or holding of any security or other property pursuant to such advice; or
(
3
) Any rollover or other distribution of plan assets or the investment of distributed assets in any security or other property pursuant to such advice;
(D) Any material affiliation or material contractual relationship of the fiduciary adviser or affiliates thereof in the security or other property;
(E) The manner, and under what circumstances, any participant or beneficiary information provided under the arrangement will be used or disclosed;
(F) The types of services provided by the fiduciary adviser in connection with the provision of investment advice by the fiduciary adviser;
(G) The adviser is acting as a fiduciary of the plan in connection with the provision of the advice; and
(H) That a recipient of the advice may separately arrange for the provision of advice by another adviser that could have no material affiliation with and receive no fees or other compensation in connection with the security or other property.
(ii)(A) The notification required under paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section must be written in a clear and conspicuous manner and in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and must be sufficiently accurate and comprehensive to reasonably apprise such participants and beneficiaries of the information required to be provided in the notification.
(B) The appendix to this section contains a model disclosure form that may be used to provide notification of the information described in paragraph (b)(7)(i)(C) of this section. Use of the model form is not mandatory. However, use of an appropriately completed model disclosure form will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section with respect to such information.
(iii) The notification required under paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section may, in accordance with 29 CFR 2520.104b-1, be provided in written or electronic form.
(iv) With respect to the information required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section, the fiduciary adviser shall, at all times during the provision of advisory services to the participant or beneficiary pursuant to the arrangement—
(A) Maintain accurate, up-to-date information in a form that is consistent with paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section,
(B) Provide, without charge, accurate, up-to-date information to the recipient of the advice no less frequently than annually,
(C) Provide, without charge, accurate information to the recipient of the advice upon request of the recipient, and
(D) Provide, without charge, to the recipient of the advice any material change to the information described in paragraph (b)(7)(i) at a time reasonably contemporaneous to the change in information.
(8)
Disclosure to authorizing fiduciary.
The fiduciary adviser shall, in connection with any authorization described in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, provide the authorizing fiduciary with a written notice informing the fiduciary that:
(i) The fiduciary adviser intends to comply with the conditions of the statutory exemption for investment advice under section 408(b)(14) and (g) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and this section;
(ii) The fiduciary adviser's arrangement will be audited annually by an independent auditor for compliance with the requirements of the statutory exemption and related regulations; and
(iii) The auditor will furnish the authorizing fiduciary a copy of that auditor's findings within 60 days of its completion of the audit.
(9)
Other conditions.
The requirements of this paragraph are met if—
(i) The fiduciary adviser provides appropriate disclosure, in connection with the sale, acquisition, or holding of the security or other property, in accordance with all applicable securities laws,
(ii) Any sale, acquisition, or holding of a security or other property occurs solely at the direction of the recipient of the advice,
(iii) The compensation received by the fiduciary adviser and affiliates thereof in connection with the sale, acquisition, or holding of the security or other property is reasonable, and
(iv) The terms of the sale, acquisition, or holding of the security or other property are at least as favorable to the plan as an arm's length transaction would be.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term “
designated investment option
” means any investment option designated by the plan into which participants and beneficiaries may direct the investment of assets held in, or contributed to, their individual accounts. The term “
designated investment option
” shall not include “brokerage windows,” “self-directed brokerage accounts,” or similar plan arrangements that enable participants and beneficiaries to select investments beyond those designated by the plan. The term “
designated investment option
” has the same meaning as the term “
designated investment alternative
” as defined in 29 CFR 2550.404a-5(h).
(2)(i) The term “
fiduciary adviser
” means, with respect to a plan, a person who is a fiduciary of the plan by reason of the provision of investment advice referred to in section 3(21)(A)(ii) of ERISA by the person to the participant or beneficiary of the plan and who is—
(A) Registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
) or under the laws of the State in which the fiduciary maintains its principal office and place of business,
(B) A bank or similar financial institution referred to in section 408(b)(4) of
ERISA or a savings association (as defined in section 3(b)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(1)), but only if the advice is provided through a trust department of the bank or similar financial institution or savings association which is subject to periodic examination and review by Federal or State banking authorities,
(C) An insurance company qualified to do business under the laws of a State,
(D) A person registered as a broker or dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
),
(E) An affiliate of a person described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (D), or
(F) An employee, agent, or registered representative of a person described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (E) of this section who satisfies the requirements of applicable insurance, banking, and securities laws relating to the provision of advice.
(ii) Except as provided under 29 CFR 2550.408g-2, a fiduciary adviser includes any person who develops the computer model, or markets the computer model or investment advice program, utilized in satisfaction of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(3) A “
registered representative
” of another entity means a person described in section 3(a)(18) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18)) (substituting the entity for the broker or dealer referred to in such section) or a person described in section 202(a)(17) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(17)) (substituting the entity for the investment adviser referred to in such section).
(4) “
Individual Retirement Account
” or “
IRA
” means—
(i) An individual retirement account described in section 408(a) of the Code;
(ii) An individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b) of the Code;
(iii) An Archer MSA described in section 220(d) of the Code;
(iv) A health savings account described in section 223(d) of the Code;
(v) A Coverdell education savings account described in section 530 of the Code;
(vi) A trust, plan, account, or annuity which, at any time, has been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be described in any of paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section;
(vii) A “simplified employee pension” described in section 408(k) of the Code; or
(viii) A “simple retirement account” described in section 408(p) of the Code.
(5) An “
affiliate
” of another person means—
(i) Any person directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding with power to vote, 5 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of such other person;
(ii) Any person 5 percent or more of whose outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to vote, by such other person;
(iii) Any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such other person; and
(iv) Any officer, director, partner, copartner, or employee of such other person.
(6)(i) A person with a “
material affiliation
” with another person means—
(A) Any affiliate of the other person;
(B) Any person directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding, 5 percent or more of the interests of such other person; and
(C) Any person 5 percent or more of whose interests are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held, by such other person.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, “
interest
” means with respect to an entity—
(A) The combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or the total value of the shares of all classes of stock of the entity if the entity is a corporation;
(B) The capital interest or the profits interest of the entity if the entity is a partnership; or
(C) The beneficial interest of the entity if the entity is a trust or unincorporated enterprise.
(7) Persons have a “
material contractual relationship
” if payments made by one person to the other person pursuant to contracts or agreements between the persons exceed 10 percent of the gross revenue, on an annual basis, of such other person.
(8) “
Control
” means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual.
(d)
Retention of records.
The fiduciary adviser must maintain, for a period of not less than 6 years after the provision of investment advice under this section any records necessary for determining whether the applicable requirements of this section have been met. A transaction prohibited under section 406 of ERISA shall not be considered to have occurred solely because the records are lost or destroyed prior to the end of the 6-year period due to circumstances beyond the control of the fiduciary adviser.
(e)
Noncompliance.
(1) The relief from the prohibited transaction provisions of section 406 of ERISA and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code described in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to any transaction described in such paragraphs in connection with the provision of investment advice to an individual participant or beneficiary with respect to which the applicable conditions of this section have not been satisfied.
(2) In the case of a pattern or practice of noncompliance with any of the applicable conditions of this section, the relief described in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to any transaction in connection with the provision of investment advice provided by the fiduciary adviser during the period over which the pattern or practice extended.
(f)
Effective date and applicability date.
This section shall be effective December 27, 2011. This section shall apply to transactions described in paragraph (b) of this section occurring on or after December 27, 2011.

# Appendix to § 2550.408g-1

# Fiduciary Adviser Disclosure
This document contains important information about [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] and how it is compensated for the investment advice provided to you. You should carefully consider this information in your evaluation of that advice.
[
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] has been selected to provide investment advisory services for the [
enter name of
Plan]. [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] will be providing these services as a fiduciary under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser], therefore, must act prudently and with only your interest in mind when providing you recommendations on how to invest your retirement assets.

# Compensation of the Fiduciary Adviser and Related Parties
[
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] (is/is not) compensated by the plan for the advice it provides.
(if compensated by the plan, explain what and how compensation is charged (e.g., asset-based fee, flat fee, per advice)). (If applicable,
[
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] is not compensated on the basis of the investment(s) selected by you.)
Affiliates of [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] (
if applicable enter,
and other parties with whom [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] is related or has a material financial relationship) also will be providing services for which they will be compensated. These services include: [
enter description of services, e.g., investment management, transfer agent, custodial, and shareholder services for some/all the investment funds available under the plan.
]
When [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] recommends that you invest your assets in an investment fund of its own or one of its affiliates and you follow that advice, [
enter name
of Fiduciary Adviser] or that affiliate will receive compensation from the investment fund based on the amount you invest. The amounts that will be paid by you will vary depending on the particular fund in which you invest your assets and may range from __% to __%. Specific information concerning the fees and other charges of each investment fund is available from [
enter source, such as: your plan administrator, investment fund provider (possibly with Internet Web site address)
]. This information should be reviewed carefully before you make an investment decision.
(
if applicable enter,
[
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] or affiliates of [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] also receive compensation from non-affiliated investment funds as a result of investments you make as a result of recommendations of [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser]. The amount of this compensation also may vary depending on the particular fund in which you invest. This compensation may range from __% to __%. Specific information concerning the fees and other charges of each investment fund is available from [
enter source, such as: your plan administrator, investment fund provider (possibly with Internet Web site address)
]. This information should be reviewed carefully before you make an investment decision.
(
if applicable enter,
In addition to the above, [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] or affiliates of [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] also receive other fees or compensation, such
as commissions, in connection with the sale, acquisition or holding of investments selected by you as a result of recommendations of [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser]. These amounts are: [
enter description of all other fees or compensation to be received in connection with sale, acquisition or holding of investments
]. This information should be reviewed carefully before you make an investment decision.
(
if applicable enter,
When [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] recommends that you take a rollover or other distribution of assets from the plan, or recommends how those assets should subsequently be invested, [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] or affiliates of [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] will receive additional fees or compensation. These amounts are: [
enter description of all other fees or compensation to be received in connection with any rollover or other distribution of plan assets or the investment of distributed assets
]. This information should be reviewed carefully before you make a decision to take a distribution.

# Consider Impact of Compensation on Advice
The fees and other compensation that [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] and its affiliates receive on account of assets in [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] (
enter if applicable,
and non-[
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser]) investment funds are a significant source of revenue for the [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] and its affiliates. You should carefully consider the impact of any such fees and compensation in your evaluation of the investment advice that [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] provides to you. In this regard, you may arrange for the provision of advice by another adviser that may have no material affiliation with or receive no compensation in connection with the investment funds or products offered under the plan. This type of advice is/is not available through your plan.

# Investment Returns
While understanding investment-related fees and expenses is important in making informed investment decisions, it is also important to consider additional information about your investment options, such as performance, investment strategies and risks. Specific information related to the past performance and historical rates of return of the investment options available under the plan (has/has not) been provided to you by [
enter source, such as: your plan administrator, investment fund provider
]. (
if applicable enter,
If not provided to you, the information is attached to this document.)
For options with returns that vary over time, past performance does not guarantee how your investment in the option will perform in the future; your investment in these options could lose money.

# Parties Participating in Development of Advice Program or Selection of Investment Options
Name, and describe role of, affiliates or other parties with whom the fiduciary adviser has a material affiliation or contractual relationship that participated in the development of the investment advice program (if this is an arrangement that uses computer models) or the selection of investment options available under the plan.

# Use of Personal Information

# Include a brief explanation of the following—What personal information will be collected; How the information will be used; Parties with whom information will be shared; How the information will be protected; and When and how notice of the Fiduciary Adviser's privacy statement will be available to participants and beneficiaries.
Should you have any questions about [
enter name of
Fiduciary Adviser] or the information contained in this document, you may contact [
enter name of contact person for fiduciary adviser, telephone number, address
].
[76 FR 66162, Oct. 25, 2011]
§ 2550.408g-2
Investment advice—fiduciary election.
(a)
General.
Section 408(g)(11)(A) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended (ERISA), provides that a person who develops a computer model or who markets a computer model or investment advice program used in an “eligible investment advice arrangement” shall be treated as a fiduciary of a plan by reason of the provision of investment advice referred to in ERISA section 3(21)(A)(ii) to the plan participant or beneficiary, and shall be treated as a “fiduciary adviser” for purposes of ERISA sections 408(b)(14) and 408(g), except that the Secretary of Labor may prescribe rules under which only one fiduciary adviser may elect to be treated as a fiduciary with respect to the plan. Section 4975(f)(8)(J)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the Code), contains a parallel provision to ERISA section 408(g)(11)(A) that applies for purposes of Code sections 4975(d)(17) and 4975(f)(8). This section sets forth requirements that must be satisfied in order for one such fiduciary adviser to elect to be treated as a fiduciary with
respect to a plan under an eligible investment advice arrangement.
(b)(1) If an election meets the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, then the person identified in the election shall be the sole fiduciary adviser treated as a fiduciary by reason of developing or marketing the computer model, or marketing the investment advice program, used in an eligible investment advice arrangement.
(2) An election satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (b) with respect to an eligible investment advice arrangement if the election is in writing and such writing—
(i) Identifies the investment advice arrangement, and the person offering the arrangement, with respect to which the election is to be effective;
(ii) Identifies a person who—
(A) Is described in any of 29 CFR 2550.408g-1(c)(2)(i)(A) through (E),
(B) Develops the computer model, or markets the computer model or investment advice program, utilized in satisfaction of 29 CFR 2550.408g-1(b)(4) with respect to the arrangement, and
(C) Acknowledges that it elects to be treated as the only fiduciary, and fiduciary adviser, by reason of developing such computer model, or marketing such computer model or investment advice program;
(iii) Is signed by the person identified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(iv) Is furnished to the person who authorized the arrangement, in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408g-1(b)(5); and
(v) Is maintained in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408g-1(d).
[76 FR 66167, Oct. 25, 2011]
§ 2550.412-1
Temporary bonding requirements.
(a) Pending the issuance of permanent regulations with respect to the bonding provisions under section 412 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act), any plan official, as defined in section 412(a) of the Act, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the bonding requirements of the Act if he or she is bonded under a bond which would have been in compliance with section 13 of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act, as amended (the WPPDA), and with the basic bonding requirements of subparts A through E of part 2580, title 29 CFR, and with the prohibition against bonding by parties interested in the plan contained in subpart G of part 2580 of such title, or would be exempt from such bonding requirements because bonding would not be required under the exemption provisions contained in subpart F of part 2580 of such title. Part 2580 of this title incorporates material previously designated as subparts A through E of part 464, subpart B of part 465 and part 485 of this title of the CFR. The requirements which are set forth in the temporary regulations hereby adopted shall be applicable to all employee benefit plans covered by the Act, including those plans which were not covered by the WPPDA. Thus, for example, the regulations so adopted are applicable to plans containing fewer than 26 participants, although such plans were not covered by the WPPDA.
(b) For the purpose of this temporary regulation, any bond or rider thereto obtained by a plan official which contains a reference to the WPPDA will be construed by the Secretary to refer to the Act:
Provided,
That the surety company so agrees.
(c) For the purpose of this regulation,
(1) Any reference to section 13 of the WPPDA or any subsection thereof in the regulations issued under the WPPDA and which are incorporated by reference by this temporary regulation shall be deemed to refer to section 412 of the Act, or the corresponding subsection thereof,
(2) Where the particular phrases set forth in the Act are not identical to the phrases in the WPPDA and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, the phrases appearing in the Act shall be substituted by operation of law, and
(3) Where the phrases are identical but the meaning is different, the meaning given such phrases by the Act shall govern. For example, the phrase “administrators, officers, and employees of any employee welfare benefit plan or of any employee pension benefit plan subject to this Act who handle funds or other property of such plan” which appears in section 13 of the WPPDA and the regulations issued thereunder shall be construed to mean, for purposes of this regulation, “plan officials”, which
is the term appearing in section 412 of the Act, and the terms “employee welfare benefit plan” and “employee pension benefit plan” shall be given the meaning assigned to them by the Act, and not the meaning set forth in the WPPDA.
(d) The requirements of this temporary regulation, as set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, shall remain in effect pending the issuance of permanent regulations by the Secretary.
[40 FR 2203, Jan. 10, 1975. Redesignated at 40 FR 20629, May 12, 1975, as amended at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985]
Pt. 2550, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 2550—Model Notice for Section 404a-3

# NOTICE OF PLAN TERMINATION

# [DO NOT USE FOR ABANDONED PLANS]
[
Date of notice
]
[
Name and last known address of plan participant or beneficiary
]
Re: [
Name of plan
]
Dear [
Name of plan participant or beneficiary
]:
This notice is to inform you that [
name of the plan
] (the Plan) has been terminated.
We have determined that you have an interest in the Plan, either as a plan participant or beneficiary. Your account balance in the Plan on [
date
] is/was [
account balance
]. We will be distributing this money as permitted under the terms of the Plan and federal regulations. {
If applicable, insert the following sentence:
The actual amount of your distribution may be more or less than the amount stated in this notice depending on investment gains or losses and the administrative cost of terminating your plan and distributing your benefits.}
Your distribution options under the Plan are {
add a description of the Plan's distribution options
}. It is very important that you elect one of these forms of distribution and inform us of your election. The process for informing us of this election is {
enter a description of the Plan's election process
}.
If you do not make an election within 30 days from your receipt of this notice, your account balance will be transferred directly to an individual retirement plan (inherited individual retirement plan in the case of a nonspouse beneficiary). {
If the name of the provider of the individual retirement plan is known, include the following sentence:
The name of the provider of the individual retirement plan is [
name, address and phone number of the individual retirement plan provider
].} Pursuant to federal law, your money in the individual retirement plan would then be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return and liquidity. {
If fee information is known, include the following sentence:
Should your money be transferred to the individual retirement plan described, above, [
name of the financial institution
] will charge your account the following fees for its services: {
add a statement of fees, if any, that will be paid from the participant or beneficiary's individual retirement plan
}.}
For more information about the termination, your account balance, or distribution options, please contact [
name, address, and telephone number of the plan administrator or other appropriate contact person
].
Sincerely,
[
Name of plan administrator or appropriate designee
]
[
Name of plan
]
[89 FR 43659, May 17, 2024]

# SUBCHAPTER G—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
Pt. 2560

# PART 2560—RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec.
2560.502-1
Requests for enforcement pursuant to section 502(b)(2).
2560.502c-2
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(2).
2560.502c-4
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(4).
2560.502c-5
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(5).
2560.502c-6
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(6).
2560.502c-7
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(7).
2560.502c-8
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(8).
2560.502i-1
Civil penalties under section 502(i).
2560.503-1
Claims procedure.
2560.521-1
Cease and desist and seizure orders under section 521.
2560.521-2
Disclosure of order and proceedings.
2560.521-3
Effect on other enforcement authority.
2560.521-4
Cross-reference.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 1132, 1135, and Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2011, 77 FR 1088 (Jan. 9, 2012). Section 2560.503-1 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1133. Section 2560.502c-7 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1132(c)(7). Section 2560.502c-4 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1132(c)(4). Section 2560.502c-8 also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1132(c)(8).
§ 2560.502-1
Requests for enforcement pursuant to section 502(b)(2).
(a)
Form, content and filing.
All requests by participants, beneficiaries, and fiduciaries for the Secretary of Labor to exercise his enforcement authority pursuant to section 502(a)(5), 29 U.S.C. 1132(a)(5), with respect to a violation of, or the enforcement of, parts 2 and 3 of title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) shall be in writing and shall contain information sufficient to form a basis for identifying the participant, beneficiary, or fiduciary and the plan involved. All such requests shall be considered filed if they are directed to and received by any office or official of the Department of Labor or referred to and received by any such office or official by any party to whom such writing is directed.
(b)
Consideration.
The Secretary of Labor retains discretion to determine whether any enforcement proceeding should be commenced in the case of any request received pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and he may, but shall not be required to, exercise his authority pursuant to section 502(a)(5) of the Act only if he determines that such violation affects, or such enforcement is necessary to protect claims of participants or beneficiaries to benefits under the plan.
[43 FR 50175, Oct. 27, 1978]
§ 2560.502c-2
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(2).
(a)
In general.
(1) Pursuant to the authority granted the Secretary under section 502(c)(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the administrator (within the meaning of section 3(16)(A)) of an employee benefit plan (within the meaning of section 3(3) and § 2510.3-1,
et seq.
) for which an annual report is required to be filed under section 101(b)(1) shall be liable for civil penalties assessed by the Secretary under section 502(c)(2) of the Act in each case in which there is a failure or refusal to file the annual report required to be filed under section 101(b)(1).
(2) For purposes of this section, a failure or refusal to file the annual report required to be filed under section 101(b)(1) shall mean a failure or refusal to file, in whole or in part, that information described in section 103 and § 2520.103-1,
et seq.,
on behalf of the plan at the time and in the manner prescribed therefor.
(b)
Amount assessed.
(1) The amount assessed under section 502(c)(2) of the
Act shall be determined by the Department of Labor, taking into consideration the degree and/or willfulness of the failure or refusal to file the annual report. However, the amount assessed under section 502(c)(2) of the Act shall not exceed $1,000 a day(adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended),computed from the date of the administrator's failure or refusal to file the annual report and, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, continuing up to the date on which an annual report satisfactory to the Secretary is filed.
(2) If upon receipt of a notice of intent to assess a penalty (as described in paragraph (c) of this section) the administrator files a statement of reasonable cause for the failure to file, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, a penalty shall not be assessed for any day from the date the Department serves the administrator with a copy of such notice until the day after the Department serves notice on the administrator of its determination on reasonable cause and its intention to assess a penalty (as described in paragraph (g) of this section).
(3) For purposes of this paragraph, the date on which the administrator failed or refused to file the annual report shall be the date on which the annual report was due (determined without regard to any extension for filing). An annual report which is rejected under section 104(a)(4) for a failure to provide material information shall be treated as a failure to file an annual report when a revised report satisfactory to the Department is not filed within 45 days of the date of the Department's notice of rejection.
A penalty shall not be assessed under section 502(c)(2) for any day earlier than the day after the date of an administrator's failure or refusal to file the annual report if a revised filing satisfactory to the Department is not submitted within 45 days of the date of the notice of rejection by the Department.
(c)
Notice of intent to assess a penalty.
Prior to the assessment of any penalty under section 502(c)(2), the Department shall provide to the administrator of the plan a written notice indicating the Department's intent to assess a penalty under section 502(c)(2), the amount of such penalty, the period to which the penalty applies, and the reason(s) for the penalty.
(d)
Reconsideration or waiver of penalty to be assessed.
The Department may determine that all or part of the penalty amount in the notice of intent to assess a penalty shall not be assessed on a showing that the administrator complied with the requirements of section 101(b)(1) of the Act or on a showing by the administrator of mitigating circumstances regarding the degree or willfulness of the noncompliance.
(e)
Showing of reasonable cause.
Upon issuance by the Department of a notice of intent to assess a penalty, the administrator shall have thirty (30) days from the date of service of the notice, as described in paragraph (i) of this section, to file a statement of reasonable cause explaining why the penalty, as calculated, should be reduced, or not be assessed, for the reasons set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Such statement must be made in writing and set forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause for the reduction or nonassessment of the penalty. The statement must contain a declaration by the administrator that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(f)
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause.
Failure of an administrator to file a statement of reasonable cause within the thirty (30) day period described in paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right to appear and contest the facts alleged in the notice of intent, and such failure shall be deemed an admission of the facts alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(2) of the Act. Such notice shall then become a final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.61(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(g)
Notice of the determination on statement of reasonable cause.
(1) The Department, following a review of all the facts alleged in support of no assessment or a complete or partial waiver of the penalty, shall notify the administrator, in writing, of its determination to waive the penalty, in whole or in
part, and/or assess a penalty. If it is the determination of the Department to assess a penalty, the notice shall indicate the amount of the penalty, not to exceed the amount described in paragraph (c) of this section. This notice is a “pleading” for purposes of § 2570.61(m) of this chapter.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, indicating the Department's intention to assess a penalty, shall become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.61(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(h)
Administrative hearing.
A notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section will not become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.61(g) of this chapter, if, within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice, the administrator or a representative thereof files a request for a hearing under §§ 2570.60 through 2570.71 of this chapter, and files an answer to the notice. The request for hearing and answer must be filed in accordance with § 2570.62 of this chapter and § 18.4 of this title. The answer opposing the proposed sanction shall be in writing, and supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Service of notices and filing of statements.
(1) Service of a notice for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section shall be made:
(i) By delivering a copy to the administrator or representative thereof;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of the administrator or representative thereof; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of the administrator or representative thereof.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If service is by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee. When service of a notice under paragraph (c) or (g) of this section is by certified mail, five (5) days shall be added to the time allowed by these rules for the filing of a statement, or a request for hearing and answer, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of this section, a statement of reasonable cause shall be considered filed:
(i) Upon mailing, if accomplished using United States Postal Service certified mail or Express Mail;
(ii) Upon receipt by the delivery service, if accomplished using a “designated private delivery service” within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 7502(f);
(iii) Upon transmittal, if transmitted in a manner specified in the notice of intent to assess a penalty as a method of transmittal to be accorded such special treatment; or
(iv) In the case of any other method of filing, upon receipt by the Department at the address provided in the notice of intent to assess a penalty.
(j)
Liability.
(1) If more than one person is responsible as administrator for the failure to file the annual report, all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable with respect to such failure.
(2) Any person against whom a civil penalty has been assessed under section 502(c)(2) pursuant to a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.61(g), shall be personally liable for the payment of such penalty.
(k)
Cross-reference.
See §§ 2570.60 through 2570.71 of this chapter for procedural rules relating to administrative hearings under section 502(c)(2) of the Act.
[54 FR 26894, June 26, 1989, as amended at 67 FR 777, Jan. 7, 2002; 68 FR 3734, Jan. 24, 2003; 81 FR 43453, July 1, 2016]
§ 2560.502c-4
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(4).
(a)
In general.
(1) Pursuant to the authority granted the Secretary under section 502(c)(4) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the administrator (within the meaning of section 3(16)(A) of the Act) shall be liable for civil penalties assessed by the Secretary under section 502(c)(4) of the Act, for failure or refusal to furnish:
(i) Notice of funding-based limits in accordance with section 101(j) of the Act;
(ii) Actuarial, financial or funding information in accordance with section 101(k) of the Act;
(iii) Notice of potential withdrawal liability in accordance with section 101(l) of the Act; or
(iv) Notice of rights and obligations under an automatic contribution arrangement in accordance with section 514(e)(3) of the Act.
(2) For purposes of this section, a failure or refusal to furnish the items referred to in paragraph (a)(1) above shall mean a failure or refusal to furnish, in whole or in part, the items required under section 101(j), (k), or (l), or section 514(e)(3) of the Act at the relevant times and manners prescribed in such sections.
(b)
Amount assessed.
(1) The amount assessed under section 502(c)(4) of the Act for each separate violation shall be determined by the Department of Labor, taking into consideration the degree or willfulness of the failure or refusal to furnish the items referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. However, the amount assessed for each violation under section 502(c)(4) of the Act shall not exceed $1,000 a day (adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended), computed from the date of the administrator's failure or refusal to furnish the items referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) For purposes of calculating the amount to be assessed under this section, a failure or refusal to furnish the item with respect to any person entitled to receive such item, shall be treated as a separate violation under section 101(j), (k), or (l), or section 514(e)(3) of the Act, as applicable.
(c)
Notice of intent to assess a penalty.
Prior to the assessment of any penalty under section 502(c)(4) of the Act, the Department shall provide to the administrator of the plan a written notice indicating the Department's intent to assess a penalty under section 502(c)(4) of the Act, the amount of such penalty, the number of individuals on which the penalty is based, the period to which the penalty applies, and the reason(s) for the penalty.
(d)
Reconsideration or waiver of penalty to be assessed.
The Department may determine that all or part of the penalty amount in the notice of intent to assess a penalty shall not be assessed on a showing that the administrator complied with the requirements of section 101(j), (k), or (l), or section 514(e)(3) of the Act, as applicable, or on a showing by such person of mitigating circumstances regarding the degree or willfulness of the noncompliance.
(e)
Showing of reasonable cause.
Upon issuance by the Department of a notice of intent to assess a penalty, the administrator shall have thirty (30) days from the date of service of the notice, as described in paragraph (i) of this section, to file a statement of reasonable cause explaining why the penalty, as calculated, should be reduced, or not be assessed, for the reasons set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Such statement must be made in writing and set forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause for the reduction or nonassessment of the penalty. The statement must contain a declaration by the administrator that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(f)
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause.
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause within the thirty (30) day period described in paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right to appear and contest the facts alleged in the notice of intent, and such failure shall be deemed an admission of the facts alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(4) of the Act. Such notice shall then become a final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(g)
Notice of determination on statement of reasonable cause.
(1) The Department, following a review of all of the facts in a statement of reasonable cause alleged in support of nonassessment or a complete or partial waiver of the penalty, shall notify the administrator, in writing, of its determination on the statement of reasonable cause and its determination whether to waive the penalty in whole or in part, and/or assess a penalty. If it is the determination of the Department to assess a penalty, the notice shall indicate the amount of the penalty assessment, not to exceed the amount described in
paragraph (c) of this section. This notice is a “pleading” for purposes of § 2570.131(m) of this chapter.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, indicating the Department's determination to assess a penalty, shall become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(h)
Administrative hearing.
A notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section will not become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter, if, within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice, the administrator or a representative thereof files a request for a hearing under §§ 2570.130 through 2570.141 of this chapter, and files an answer to the notice. The request for hearing and answer must be filed in accordance with § 2570.132 of this chapter and § 18.4 of this title. The answer opposing the proposed sanction shall be in writing, and supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Service of notices and filing of statements.
(1) Service of a notice for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section shall be made:
(i) By delivering a copy to the administrator or representative thereof;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of the administrator or representative thereof; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of the administrator or representative thereof.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If service is by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee. When service of a notice under paragraph (c) or (g) of this section is by certified mail, five days shall be added to the time allowed by these rules for the filing of a statement or a request for hearing and answer, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of this section, a statement of reasonable cause shall be considered filed:
(i) Upon mailing, if accomplished using United States Postal Service certified mail or express mail;
(ii) Upon receipt by the delivery service, if accomplished using a “designated private delivery service” within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 7502(f);
(iii) Upon transmittal, if transmitted in a manner specified in the notice of intent to assess a penalty as a method of transmittal to be accorded such special treatment; or
(iv) In the case of any other method of filing, upon receipt by the Department at the address provided in the notice of intent to assess a penalty.
(j)
Liability.
(1) If more than one person is responsible as administrator for the failure to furnish the items required under section 101(j), (k), or (l), or section 514(e)(3) of the Act, as applicable, all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable for such failure. For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the term “administrator” shall include plan sponsor (within the meaning of section 3(16)(B) of the Act).
(2) Any person, or persons under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, against whom a civil penalty has been assessed under section 502(c)(4) of the Act, pursuant to a final order within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter shall be personally liable for the payment of such penalty.
(k)
Cross-references.
(1) The procedural rules in §§ 2570.130 through 2570.141 of this chapter apply to administrative hearings under section 502(c)(4) of the Act.
(2) When applying procedural rules in §§ 2570.130 through 2570.140:
(i) Wherever the term “502(c)(7)” appears, such term shall mean “502(c)(4)”;
(ii) Reference to § 2560.502c-7(g) in 2570.131(c) shall be construed as reference to § 2560.502c-4(g) of this chapter;
(iii) Reference to § 2560.502c-7(e) in § 2570.131(g) shall be construed as reference to § 2560.502c-4(e) of this chapter;
(iv) Reference to § 2560.502c-7(g) in § 2570.131(m) shall be construed as reference to § 2560.502c-4(g); and
(v) Reference to §§ 2560.502c-7(g) and 2560.502c-7(h) in § 2570.134 shall be construed as reference to §§ 2560.502c-4(g) and 2560.502c-4(h), respectively.
[74 FR 20, Jan. 2, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 43453, July 1, 2016]
§ 2560.502c-5
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(5).
(a)
In general.
(1) Pursuant to the authority granted the Secretary under section 502(c)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the administrator of a multiple employer welfare arrangement (MEWA) (within the meaning of section 3(40)(A) of the Act) that is not a group health plan, and that provides benefits consisting of medical care (within the meaning of section 733(a)(2)), for which a report is required to be filed under section 101(g) of the Act and 29 CFR 2520.101-2, shall be liable for civil penalties assessed by the Secretary under section 502(c)(5) of the Act for each failure or refusal to file a completed report required to be filed under section 101(g) and 29 CFR 2520.101-2. The term “administrator” is defined in 29 CFR 2520.101-2(b).
(2) For purposes of this section, a failure or refusal to file the report required to be filed under section 101(g) shall mean a failure or refusal to file, in whole or in part, that information described in section 101(g) and 29 CFR 2520.101-2, on behalf of the MEWA, at the time and in the manner prescribed therefor.
(b)
Amount assessed.
(1) The amount assessed under section 502(c)(5) shall be determined by the Department of Labor, taking into consideration the degree and/or willfulness of the failure to file the report. However, the amount assessed under section 502(c)(5) or the Act shall not exceed $1,000 a day (adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended), computed from the date of the administrator's failure or refusal to file the report and, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, continuing up to the date on which a report meeting the requirements of section 101(g) of the Act and 29 CFR 2520.101-2, as determined by the Secretary, is filed.
(2) If, upon receipt of a notice of intent to assess a penalty (as described in paragraph (c) of this section), the administrator files a statement of reasonable cause for the failure to file, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, a penalty shall not be assessed for any day from the date the Department serves the administrator with a copy of such notice until the day after the Department serves notice on the administrator of its determination on reasonable cause and its intention to assess a penalty (as described in paragraph (g) of this section).
(3) For purposes of this paragraph, the date on which the administrator failed or refused to file the report shall be the date on which the report was due (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing). A report which is rejected under 29 CFR 2520.101-2 shall be treated as a failure to file a report when a revised report meeting the requirements of this section is not filed within 45 days of the date of the Department's notice of rejection. If a revised report meeting the requirements of this section, as determined by the Secretary, is not submitted within 45 days of the date of the notice of rejection by the Department, a penalty shall be assessed under section 502(c)(5) beginning on the day after the date of the administrator's failure or refusal to file the report.
(c)
Notice of intent to assess a penalty.
Prior to the assessment of any penalty under section 502(c)(5), the Department shall provide to the administrator of the MEWA a written notice indicating the Department's intent to assess a penalty under section 502(c)(5), the amount of such penalty, the period to which the penalty applies, and a statement of the facts and the reason(s) for the penalty.
(d)
Reconsideration or waiver of penalty to be assessed.
The Department may determine that all or part of the penalty amount in the notice of intent to assess a penalty shall not be assessed on a showing that the administrator complied with the requirements of section 101(g) of the Act or on a showing by the administrator of mitigating circumstances regarding the degree or willfulness of the noncompliance.
(e)
Showing of reasonable cause.
Upon issuance by the Department of a notice of intent to assess a penalty, the administrator shall have thirty (30) days from the date of service of the notice, as described in paragraph (i) of this section, to file a statement of reasonable cause explaining why the penalty, as calculated, should be reduced, or not be assessed, for the reasons set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Such statement must be made in writing and set forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause for the reduction or nonassessment of the penalty. The statement must contain a declaration by the administrator that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(f)
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause.
Failure of an administrator to file a statement of reasonable cause within the thirty (30) day period described in paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right to appear and contest the facts alleged in the notice of intent, and such failure shall be deemed an admission of the facts alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(5) of the Act. Such notice shall then become a final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of 29 CFR 2570.91(g), forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(g)
Notice of the determination on statement of reasonable cause.
(1) The Department, following a review of all the facts alleged in support of no assessment or a complete or partial waiver of the penalty, shall notify the administrator, in writing, of its determination to waive the penalty, in whole or in part, and/or assess a penalty. If it is the determination of the Department to assess a penalty, the notice shall indicate the amount of the penalty, not to exceed the amount described in paragraph (c) of this section, and a brief statement of the reasons for assessing the penalty. This notice is a “pleading” for purposes of 29 CFR 2570.91(m).
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, indicating the Department's intention to assess a penalty, shall become a final order, within the meaning of 29 CFR 2570.91(g), forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(h)
Administrative hearing.
A notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section will not become a final order, within the meaning of 29 CFR 2570.91(g), if, within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice, the administrator or a representative thereof files a request for a hearing under 29 CFR 2570.90 through 2570.101, and files an answer to the notice. The request for hearing and answer must be filed in accordance with 29 CFR 2570.92 and 18.4. The answer opposing the proposed sanction shall be in writing, and supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Service of notices and filing of statements.
(1) Service of a notice for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section shall be made:
(i) By delivering a copy to the administrator or representative thereof;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of the administrator or representative thereof; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of the administrator or representative thereof.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If service is by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee. When service of a notice under paragraph (c) or (g) of this section is by certified mail, five (5) days shall be added to the time allowed by these rules for the filing of a statement, or a request for hearing and answer, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of this section, a statement of reasonable cause shall be considered filed:
(i) Upon mailing, if accomplished using United States Postal Service certified mail or Express Mail;
(ii) Upon receipt by the delivery service, if accomplished using a “designated private delivery service” within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 7502(f);
(iii) Upon transmittal, if transmitted in a manner specified in the notice of intent to assess a penalty as a method
of transmittal to be accorded such special treatment; or
(iv) In the case of any other method of filing, upon receipt by the Department at the address provided in the notice of intent to assess a penalty.
(j)
Liability
. (1) If more than one person is responsible as administrator for the failure to file the report, all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable with respect to such failure.
(2) Any person against whom a civil penalty has been assessed under section 502(c)(5) pursuant to a final order, within the meaning of 29 CFR 2570.91(g), shall be personally liable for the payment of such penalty.
(k)
Cross-reference. See
29 CFR 2570.90 through 2570.101 for procedural rules relating to administrative hearings under section 502(c)(5) of the Act.
[68 FR 17505, Apr. 9, 2003, as amended at 81 FR 43453, July 1, 2016]
§ 2560.502c-6
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(6).
(a)
In general.
(1) Pursuant to the authority granted the Secretary under section 502(c)(6) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the administrator (within the meaning of section 3(16)(A) of the Act) of an employee benefit plan (within the meaning of section 3(3) of the Act and § 2510.3-1 of this chapter) shall be liable for civil penalties assessed by the Secretary under section 502(c)(6) of the Act in each case in which there is a failure or refusal to furnish to the Secretary documents requested under section 104(a)(6) of the Act and § 2520.104a-8 of this chapter.
(2) For purposes of this section, a failure or refusal to furnish documents shall mean a failure or refusal to furnish, in whole or in part, the documents requested under section 104(a)(6) of the Act and § 2520.104a-8 of this chapter at the time and in the manner prescribed in the request.
(b)
Amount assessed.
(1) The amount assessed under section 502(c)(6) of the Act shall be determined by the Department of Labor, taking into consideration the degree and/or willfulness of the failure or refusal to furnish any document or documents requested by the Department under section 104(a)(6) of the Act. However, the amount assessed under section 502(c)(6) of the Act shall not exceed $100 a day or $1,000 per request (such amounts to be adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended), computed from the date of the administrator's failure or refusal to furnish any document or documents requested by the Department.
(2) For purposes of calculating the amount to be assessed under this section, the date of a failure or refusal to furnish documents shall not be earlier than the thirtieth day after service of the request under section 104(a)(6) of ERISA and § 2520.104a-8 of this chapter.
(c)
Notice of intent to assess a penalty.
Prior to the assessment of any penalty under section 502(c)(6) of the Act, the Department shall provide to the administrator of the plan a written notice that indicates the Department's intent to assess a penalty under section 502(c)(6) of the Act, the amount of the penalty, the period to which the penalty applies, and the reason(s) for the penalty.
(d)
Reconsideration or waiver of penalty to be assessed.
The Department may determine that all or part of the penalty amount in the notice of intent to assess a penalty shall not be assessed on a showing that the administrator complied with the requirements of section 104(a)(6) of the Act or on a showing by the administrator of mitigating circumstances regarding the degree or willfulness of the noncompliance.
(e)
Showing of reasonable cause.
Upon issuance by the Department of a notice of intent to assess a penalty, the administrator shall have thirty (30) days from the date of service of the notice, as described in paragraph (i) of this section, to file a statement of reasonable cause explaining why the penalty, as calculated, should be reduced or not be assessed, for the reasons set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Such statement must be made in writing and set forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause for the reduction or nonassessment of the penalty. The statement must contain a declaration by the administrator that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(f)
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause.
Failure to file a statement
of reasonable cause within the 30 day period described in paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right to appear and contest the facts alleged in the notice of intent, and such failure shall be deemed an admission of the facts alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(6) of the Act. Such notice shall then become a final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.111(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(g)
Notice of determination on statement of reasonable cause.
(1) The Department, following a review of all of the facts alleged in support of no assessment or a complete or partial waiver of the penalty, shall notify the administrator, in writing, of its determination not to assess or to waive the penalty, in whole or in part, and/or assess a penalty. If it is the determination of the Department to assess a penalty, the notice shall indicate the amount of the penalty, not to exceed the amount described in paragraph (c) of this section. This notice is a “pleading” for purposes of § 2570.111(m) of this chapter.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, indicating the Department's intention to assess a penalty, shall become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.111(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(h)
Administrative hearing.
A notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section will not become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.91(g) of this chapter, if, within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice, the administrator or a representative thereof files a request for a hearing under §§ 2570.110 through 2570.121 of this chapter, and files an answer to the notice. The request for hearing and answer must be filed in accordance with § 2570.112 of this chapter and § 18.4 of this title. The answer opposing the proposed sanction shall be in writing, and supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Service of notices and filing of statements.
(1) Service of a notice for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section shall be made:
(i) By delivering a copy to the administrator or representative thereof;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of the administrator or representative thereof; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of the administrator or representative thereof.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If service is by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee. When service of a notice under paragraph (c) or (g) of this section is by certified mail, five (5) days shall be added to the time allowed by these rules for the filing of a statement, or a request for hearing and answer, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of this section, a statement of reasonable cause shall be considered filed:
(i) Upon mailing, if accomplished using United States Postal Service certified mail or Express Mail;
(ii) Upon receipt by the delivery service, if accomplished using a “designated private delivery service” within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 7502(f);
(iii) Upon transmittal, if transmitted in a manner specified in the notice of intent to assess a penalty as a method of transmittal to be accorded such special treatment; or
(iv) In the case of any other method of filing, upon receipt by the Department at the address provided in the notice of intent to assess a penalty.
(j)
Liability.
(1) If more than one person is responsible as administrator for the failure to furnish the document or documents requested under section 104(a)(6) of the Act and its implementing regulations (§ 2520.104a-8 of this chapter), all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable with respect to such failure.
(2) Any person, or persons under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, against whom a civil penalty has been assessed under section 502(c)(6) of the Act pursuant to a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.111(g) of this chapter, shall
be personally liable for the payment of such penalty.
(k)
Cross-reference.
See §§ 2570.110 through 2570.121 of this chapter for procedural rules relating to administrative hearings under section 502(c)(6) of the Act.
[67 FR 785, Jan. 7, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 3735, Jan. 24, 2003; 81 FR 43453, July 1, 2016]
§ 2560.502c-7
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(7).
(a)
In general.
(1) Pursuant to the authority granted the Secretary under section 502(c)(7) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the administrator (within the meaning of section 3(16)(A) of the Act) of an individual account plan (within the meaning of section 101(i)(8) of the Act and § 2520.101-3(d)(2) of this chapter), who fails or refuses to provide notice of a blackout period to affected participants and beneficiaries in accordance with section 101(i) of the Act and § 2520.101-3 of this chapter, or the administrator (within the meaning of section 3(16)(A) of the Act) of an applicable individual account plan (within the meaning of section 101(m) of the Act), who fails or refuses to provide notice of diversification rights to applicable individuals in accordance with section 101(m) of the Act, shall be liable for civil penalties assessed by the Secretary under section 502(c)(7) of the Act.
(2) For purposes of this section, a failure or refusal to provide a notice of blackout period shall mean a failure or refusal, in whole or in part, to provide notice of a blackout period to an affected plan participant or beneficiary at the time and in the manner prescribed by section 101(i) of the Act and § 2520.101-3 of this chapter, and a failure or refusal to provide a notice of diversification rights shall mean a failure or refusal, in whole or in part, to provide notice of diversification rights to an applicable individual at the time and in the manner prescribed by section 101(m) of the Act.
(b)
Amount assessed.
(1) The amount assessed under section 502(c)(7) of the Act for each separate violation shall be determined by the Department of Labor, taking into consideration the degree and/or willfulness of the failure or refusal to provide a notice of blackout period or notice of diversification rights. However, the amount assessed for each violation under section 502(c)(7) of the Act shall not exceed $100 a day (adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended), computed from, in the case of a notice of blackout period under section 101(i) of the Act, the date of the administrator's failure or refusal to provide a notice of blackout period up to and including the date that is the final day of the blackout period for which the notice was required, or in the case of a notice of diversification rights under section 101(m) of the Act, computed from the date that is 30 days before the first date on which rights are exercisable under section 204(j) of the Act up to the date such a notice is furnished.
(2) For purposes of calculating the amount to be assessed under this section, a failure or refusal to provide a notice of blackout period or a notice of diversification rights with respect to any single participant or beneficiary shall be treated as a separate violation under section 101(i) of the Act and § 2520.101-3 of this chapter or section 101(m) of the Act.
(c)
Notice of intent to assess a penalty.
Prior to the assessment of any penalty under section 502(c)(7) of the Act, the Department shall provide to the administrator of the plan a written notice indicating the Department's intent to assess a penalty under section 502(c)(7) of the Act, the amount of such penalty, the number of participants and beneficiaries on which the penalty is based, the period to which the penalty applies, and the reason(s) for the penalty.
(d)
Reconsideration or waiver of penalty to be assessed.
The Department may determine that all or part of the penalty amount in the notice of intent to assess a penalty shall not be assessed on a showing that the administrator complied with the applicable requirements of section 101(i) or section 101(m) of the Act or on a showing by the administrator of mitigating circumstances regarding the degree or willfulness of the noncompliance.
(e)
Showing of reasonable cause.
Upon issuance by the Department of a notice of intent to assess a penalty, the administrator shall have thirty (30) days from the date of service of the notice, as described in paragraph (i) of this section, to file a statement of reasonable cause explaining why the penalty, as calculated, should be reduced, or not be assessed, for the reasons set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Such statement must be made in writing and set forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause for the reduction or nonassessment of the penalty. The statement must contain a declaration by the administrator that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(f)
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause.
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause within the 30 day period described in paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right to appear and contest the facts alleged in the notice of intent, and such failure shall be deemed an admission of the facts alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(7) of the Act. Such notice shall then become a final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(g)
Notice of determination on statement of reasonable cause.
(1) The Department, following a review of all of the facts in a statement of reasonable cause alleged in support of no assessment or a complete or partial waiver of the penalty, shall notify the administrator, in writing, of its determination on the statement of reasonable cause and its determination whether to waive the penalty in whole or in part, and/or assess a penalty. If it is the determination of the Department to assess a penalty, the notice shall indicate the amount of the penalty assessment, not to exceed the amount described in paragraph (c) of this section. This notice is a “pleading” for purposes of § 2570.131(m) of this chapter.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, indicating the Department's determination to assess a penalty, shall become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(h)
Administrative hearing.
A notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section will not become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter, if, within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice, the administrator or a representative thereof files a request for a hearing under §§ 2570.130 through 2570.141 of this chapter, and files an answer to the notice. The request for hearing and answer must be filed in accordance with § 2570.132 of this chapter and § 18.4 of this title. The answer opposing the proposed sanction shall be in writing, and supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Service of notices and filing of statements.
(1) Service of a notice for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section shall be made:
(i) By delivering a copy to the administrator or representative thereof;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of the administrator or representative thereof; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of the administrator or representative thereof.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If service is by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee. When service of a notice under paragraph (c) or (g) of this section is by certified mail, five (5) days shall be added to the time allowed by these rules for the filing of a statement or a request for hearing and answer, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of this section, a statement of reasonable cause shall be considered filed:
(i) Upon mailing, if accomplished using United States Postal Service certified mail or Express Mail;
(ii) Upon receipt by the delivery service, if accomplished using a “designated private delivery service” within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 7502(f);
(iii) Upon transmittal, if transmitted in a manner specified in the notice of
intent to assess a penalty as a method of transmittal to be accorded such special treatment; or
(iv) In the case of any other method of filing, upon receipt by the Department at the address provided in the notice of intent to assess a penalty.
(j)
Liability.
(1) If more than one person is responsible as administrator for the failure to provide a notice of blackout period under section 101(i) of the Act and its implementing regulations (§ 2520.101-3 of this chapter), or the failure to provide a notice of diversification rights under section 101(m) of the Act, all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable for such failure.
(2) Any person, or persons under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, against whom a civil penalty has been assessed under section 502(c)(7) of the Act, pursuant to a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this chapter, shall be personally liable for the payment of such penalty.
(k)
Cross-reference.
See §§ 2570.130 through 2570.141 of this chapter for procedural rules relating to administrative hearings under section 502(c)(7) of the Act.
[68 FR 3736, Jan. 24, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 44972, Aug. 10, 2007; 81 FR 43453, July 1, 2016]
§ 2560.502c-8
Civil penalties under section 502(c)(8).
(a)
In general.
(1) Pursuant to the authority granted the Secretary under section 502(c)(8) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the plan sponsor (within the meaning of section 3(16)(B)(iii) of the Act) shall be liable for civil penalties assessed by the Secretary under section 502(c)(8) of the Act, for:
(i) Each violation by such sponsor of the requirement under section 305 of the Act to adopt by the deadline established in that section a funding improvement plan or rehabilitation plan with respect to a multiemployer plan which is in endangered or critical status; or
(ii) In the case of a plan in endangered status which is not in seriously endangered status, a failure by the plan to meet the applicable benchmarks under section 305 by the end of the funding improvement period with respect to the plan.
(2) For purposes of this section, violations or failures referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall mean a failure or refusal, in whole or in part, to adopt a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, or to meet the applicable benchmarks, at the relevant times and manners prescribed in section 305 of the Act.
(b)
Amount assessed.
The amount assessed under section 502(c)(8) of the Act for each separate violation shall be determined by the Department of Labor, taking into consideration the degree or willfulness of the failure or refusal to comply with the specific requirements referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. However, the amount assessed for each violation under section 502(c)(8) of the Act shall not exceed $1,100 a day (adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended), computed from the date of the plan sponsor's failure or refusal to comply with the specific requirements referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Notice of intent to assess a penalty.
Prior to the assessment of any penalty under section 502(c)(8) of the Act, the Department shall provide to the plan sponsor of the plan a written notice indicating the Department's intent to assess a penalty under section 502(c)(8) of the Act, the amount of such penalty, the period to which the penalty applies, and the reason(s) for the penalty.
(d)
Reconsideration or waiver of penalty to be assessed.
The Department may determine that all or part of the penalty amount in the notice of intent to assess a penalty shall not be assessed on a showing that the plan sponsor complied with the requirements of section 305 of the Act, or on a showing by the plan sponsor of mitigating circumstances regarding the degree or willfulness of the noncompliance.
(e)
Showing of reasonable cause.
Upon issuance by the Department of a notice of intent to assess a penalty, the plan sponsor shall have thirty (30) days from the date of service of the notice, as described in paragraph (i) of this section, to file a statement of reasonable cause explaining why the penalty, as calculated, should be reduced, or not be
assessed, for the reasons set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Such statement must be made in writing and set forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause for the reduction or nonassessment of the penalty. The statement must contain a declaration by the plan sponsor that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(f)
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause.
Failure to file a statement of reasonable cause within the thirty (30) day period described in paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right to appear and contest the facts alleged in the notice of intent, and such failure shall be deemed an admission of the facts alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(8) of the Act. Such notice shall then become a final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.161(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(g)
Notice of determination on statement of reasonable cause.
(1) The Department, following a review of all of the facts in a statement of reasonable cause alleged in support of nonassessment or a complete or partial waiver of the penalty, shall notify the plan sponsor, in writing, of its determination on the statement of reasonable cause and its determination whether to waive the penalty in whole or in part, and/or assess a penalty. If it is the determination of the Department to assess a penalty, the notice shall indicate the amount of the penalty assessment, not to exceed the amount described in paragraph (c) of this section. This notice is a “pleading” for purposes of § 2570.161(m) of this chapter.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, indicating the Department's determination to assess a penalty, shall become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.161(g) of this chapter, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
(h)
Administrative hearing.
A notice issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section will not become a final order, within the meaning of § 2570.161(g) of this chapter, if, within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice, the plan sponsor or a representative thereof files a request for a hearing under §§ 2570.160 through 2570.171 of this chapter, and files an answer to the notice. The request for hearing and answer must be filed in accordance with § 2570.162 of this chapter and § 18.4 of this title. The answer opposing the proposed sanction shall be in writing, and supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Service of notices and filing of statements.
(1) Service of a notice for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section shall be made:
(i) By delivering a copy to the plan sponsor or representative thereof;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of the plan sponsor or representative thereof; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of the plan sponsor or representative thereof.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If service is by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee. When service of a notice under paragraph (c) or (g) of this section is by certified mail, five days shall be added to the time allowed by these rules for the filing of a statement or a request for hearing and answer, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of this section, a statement of reasonable cause shall be considered filed:
(i) Upon mailing, if accomplished using United States Postal Service certified mail or express mail;
(ii) Upon receipt by the delivery service, if accomplished using a “designated private delivery service” within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 7502(f);
(iii) Upon transmittal, if transmitted in a manner specified in the notice of intent to assess a penalty as a method of transmittal to be accorded such special treatment; or
(iv) In the case of any other method of filing, upon receipt by the Department at the address provided in the notice of intent to assess a penalty.
(j)
Liability.
(1) If more than one person is responsible as plan sponsor for violations referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable for such violations.
(2) Any person, or persons under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, against whom a civil penalty has been assessed under section 502(c)(8) of the Act, pursuant to a final order within the meaning of § 2570.161(g) of this chapter, shall be personally liable for the payment of such penalty.
(k)
Cross-reference.
See §§ 2570.160 through 2570.171 of this chapter for procedural rules relating to administrative hearings under section 502(c)(8) of the Act.
[75 FR 8800, Feb. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 43454, July 1, 2016]
§ 2560.502i-1
Civil penalties under section 502(i).
(a)
In general.
Section 502(i) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or the Act) permits the Secretary of Labor to assess a civil penalty against a party in interest who engages in a prohibited transaction with respect to an employee benefit plan other than a plan described in section 4975(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). The initial penalty under section 502(i) is five percent of the total “amount involved” in the prohibited transaction (unless a lesser amount is otherwise agreed to by the parties). However, if the prohibited transaction is not corrected during the “correction period,” the civil penalty shall be 100 percent of the “amount involved” (unless a lesser amount is otherwise agreed to by the parties). Paragraph (b) of this section defines the term “amount involved,” paragraph (c) defines the term “correction,” and paragraph (d) defines the term “correction period.” Paragraph (e) illustrates the computation of the civil penalty under section 502(i). Paragraph (f) is a cross reference to the Department's procedural rules for section 502(i) proceedings.
(b)
Amount involved.
Section 502(i) of ERISA states that the term “amount involved” in that section shall be defined as it is defined under section 4975(f)(4) of the Code. As provided in 26 CFR 141.4975.13, 26 CFR 53.4941(e)-1(b) is controlling with respect to the interpretation of the term “amount involved” under section 4975 of the Code. Accordingly, the Department of Labor will apply the principles set out at 26 CFR 53.4941(e)-1(b) in determining the “amount involved” in a transaction subject to the civil penalty provided by section 502(i) of the Act and this section.
(c)
Correction.
Section 502(i) of ERISA states that the term “correction” shall be defined in a manner that is consistent with the definition of that term under section 4975(f)(5) of the Code. As provided in 26 CFR 141.4975-13, 26 CFR 53.4941(e)-1(c) is controlling with respect to the interpretation of the term “correction” for purposes of section 4975 of the Code. Accordingly, the Department of Labor will apply the principles set out in 26 CFR 53.4941(e)-(1)(c) in interpreting the term “correction” under section 502(i) of the Act and this section.
(d)
Correction period.
(1) In general, the “correction period” begins on the date the prohibited transaction occurs and ends 90 days after a final agency order with respect to such transaction.
(2) When a party in interest seeks judicial review within 90 days of a final agency order in an ERISA section 502(i) proceeding, the correction period will end 90 days after the entry of a final order in the judicial action.
(3) The following examples illustrate the operation of this paragraph:
(i) A party in interest receives notice of the Department's intent to impose the section 502(i) penalty and does not invoke the ERISA section 502(i) prohibited transaction penalty proceedings described in § 2570.1 of this chapter within 30 days of such notice. As provided in § 2570.5 of this chapter, the notice of the intent to impose a penalty becomes a final order after 30 days. Thus, the “correction period” ends 90 days after the expiration of the 30 day period.
(ii) A party in interest contests a proposed section 502(i) penalty, but does not appeal an adverse decision of the administrative law judge in the proceeding. As provided in § 2570.10(a) of this chapter, the decision of the administrative law judge becomes a final order of the Department unless the decision is appealed within 20 days after the date of such order. Thus, the correction period ends 90 days after the expiration of such 20 day period.
(iii) The Secretary of Labor issues to a party in interest a decision upholding an administrative law judge's adverse decision. As provided in § 2570.12(b) of this chapter, the decision of the Secretary becomes a final order of the Department immediately. Thus, the correction period will end 90 days after the issuance of the Secretary's order unless the party in interest judicially contests the order within that 90 day period. If the party in interest so contests the order, the correction period will end 90 days after the entry of a final order in the judicial action.
(e)
Computation of the section 502(i) penalty.
(1) In general, the civil penalty under section 502(i) is determined by applying the applicable percentage (five percent or one hundred percent) to the aggregate amount involved in the transaction. However, a continuing prohibited transaction, such as a lease or a loan, is treated as giving rise to a separate event subject to the sanction for each year (as measured from the anniversary date of the transaction) in which the transaction occurs.
(2) The following examples illustrate the computation of the section 502(i) penalty:
(i) An employee benefit plan purchases property from a party in interest at a price of $10,000. The fair market value of the property is $5,000. The “amount involved” in that transaction, as determined under 26 CFR 53.4941(e)-1(b), is $10,000 (the greater of the amount paid by the plan or the fair market value of the property). The initial five percent penalty under section 502(i) is $500 (five percent of $10,000).
(ii) An employee benefit plan executes a four year lease with a party in interest at an annual rental of $10,000 (which is the fair rental value of the property). The amount involved in each year of that transaction, as determined under 26 CFR 53.4941(e)-1(b), is $10,000. The amount of the initial sanction under ERISA section 502(i) would be a total of $5,000: $2,000 ($10,000 × 5% × 4 with respect to the rentals paid in the first year of the lease); $1,500 ($10,000 × 5% × 3 with respect to the second year); $1,000 ($10,000 × 5% × 2 with respect to the third year); $500 ($10,000 × 5% × 1 with respect to the fourth year).
(f)
Cross reference.
See §§ 2570.1-2570.12 of this chapter for procedural rules relating to section 502(i) penalty proceedings.
[53 FR 37476, Sept. 26, 1988]
§ 2560.503-1
Claims procedure.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
In accordance with the authority of sections 503 and 505 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or the Act), 29 U.S.C. 1133, 1135, this section sets forth minimum requirements for employee benefit plan procedures pertaining to claims for benefits by participants and beneficiaries (hereinafter referred to as claimants). Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, these requirements apply to every employee benefit plan described in section 4(a) and not exempted under section 4(b) of the Act.
(b)
Obligation to establish and maintain reasonable claims procedures.
Every employee benefit plan shall establish and maintain reasonable procedures governing the filing of benefit claims, notification of benefit determinations, and appeal of adverse benefit determinations (hereinafter collectively referred to as claims procedures). The claims procedures for a plan will be deemed to be reasonable only if—
(1) The claims procedures comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j) of this section, as appropriate, except to the extent that the claims procedures are deemed to comply with some or all of such provisions pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section;
(2) A description of all claims procedures (including, in the case of a group health plan within the meaning of paragraph (m)(6) of this section, any procedures for obtaining prior approval as a prerequisite for obtaining a benefit, such as preauthorization procedures or utilization review procedures) and the applicable time frames is included as part of a summary plan description meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 2520.102-3;
(3) The claims procedures do not contain any provision, and are not administered in a way, that unduly inhibits or hampers the initiation or processing of claims for benefits. For example, a provision or practice that requires payment of a fee or costs as a condition to making a claim or to appealing an adverse benefit determination would be considered to unduly inhibit the initiation and processing of claims for benefits. Also, the denial of a claim for
failure to obtain a prior approval under circumstances that would make obtaining such prior approval impossible or where application of the prior approval process could seriously jeopardize the life or health of the claimant (e.g., in the case of a group health plan, the claimant is unconscious and in need of immediate care at the time medical treatment is required) would constitute a practice that unduly inhibits the initiation and processing of a claim;
(4) The claims procedures do not preclude an authorized representative of a claimant from acting on behalf of such claimant in pursuing a benefit claim or appeal of an adverse benefit determination. Nevertheless, a plan may establish reasonable procedures for determining whether an individual has been authorized to act on behalf of a claimant, provided that, in the case of a claim involving urgent care, within the meaning of paragraph (m)(1) of this section, a health care professional, within the meaning of paragraph (m)(7) of this section, with knowledge of a claimant's medical condition shall be permitted to act as the authorized representative of the claimant; and
(5) The claims procedures contain administrative processes and safeguards designed to ensure and to verify that benefit claim determinations are made in accordance with governing plan documents and that, where appropriate, the plan provisions have been applied consistently with respect to similarly situated claimants.
(6) In the case of a plan established and maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement (other than a plan subject to the provisions of section 302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947 concerning joint representation on the board of trustees)—
(i) Such plan will be deemed to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section if the collective bargaining agreement pursuant to which the plan is established or maintained sets forth or incorporates by specific reference—
(A) Provisions concerning the filing of benefit claims and the initial disposition of benefit claims, and
(B) A grievance and arbitration procedure to which adverse benefit determinations are subject.
(ii) Such plan will be deemed to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (h), (i), and (j) of this section (but will not be deemed to comply with paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section) if the collective bargaining agreement pursuant to which the plan is established or maintained sets forth or incorporates by specific reference a grievance and arbitration procedure to which adverse benefit determinations are subject (but not provisions concerning the filing and initial disposition of benefit claims).
(7) In the case of a plan providing disability benefits, the plan must ensure that all claims and appeals for disability benefits are adjudicated in a manner designed to ensure the independence and impartiality of the persons involved in making the decision. Accordingly, decisions regarding hiring, compensation, termination, promotion, or other similar matters with respect to any individual (such as a claims adjudicator or medical or vocational expert) must not be made based upon the likelihood that the individual will support the denial of benefits.
(c)
Group health plans.
The claims procedures of a group health plan will be deemed to be reasonable only if, in addition to complying with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section—
(1)(i) The claims procedures provide that, in the case of a failure by a claimant or an authorized representative of a claimant to follow the plan's procedures for filing a pre-service claim, within the meaning of paragraph (m)(2) of this section, the claimant or representative shall be notified of the failure and the proper procedures to be followed in filing a claim for benefits. This notification shall be provided to the claimant or authorized representative, as appropriate, as soon as possible, but not later than 5 days (24 hours in the case of a failure to file a claim involving urgent care) following the failure. Notification may be oral, unless written notification is requested by the claimant or authorized representative.
(ii) Paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall apply only in the case of a failure that—
(A) Is a communication by a claimant or an authorized representative of a claimant that is received by a person or organizational unit customarily responsible for handling benefit matters; and
(B) Is a communication that names a specific claimant; a specific medical condition or symptom; and a specific treatment, service, or product for which approval is requested.
(2) The claims procedures do not contain any provision, and are not administered in a way, that requires a claimant to file more than two appeals of an adverse benefit determination prior to bringing a civil action under section 502(a) of the Act;
(3) To the extent that a plan offers voluntary levels of appeal (except to the extent that the plan is required to do so by State law), including voluntary arbitration or any other form of dispute resolution, in addition to those permitted by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the claims procedures provide that:
(i) The plan waives any right to assert that a claimant has failed to exhaust administrative remedies because the claimant did not elect to submit a benefit dispute to any such voluntary level of appeal provided by the plan;
(ii) The plan agrees that any statute of limitations or other defense based on timeliness is tolled during the time that any such voluntary appeal is pending;
(iii) The claims procedures provide that a claimant may elect to submit a benefit dispute to such voluntary level of appeal only after exhaustion of the appeals permitted by paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(iv) The plan provides to any claimant, upon request, sufficient information relating to the voluntary level of appeal to enable the claimant to make an informed judgment about whether to submit a benefit dispute to the voluntary level of appeal, including a statement that the decision of a claimant as to whether or not to submit a benefit dispute to the voluntary level of appeal will have no effect on the claimant's rights to any other benefits under the plan and information about the applicable rules, the claimant's right to representation, the process for selecting the decisionmaker, and the circumstances, if any, that may affect the impartiality of the decisionmaker, such as any financial or personal interests in the result or any past or present relationship with any party to the review process; and
(v) No fees or costs are imposed on the claimant as part of the voluntary level of appeal.
(4) The claims procedures do not contain any provision for the mandatory arbitration of adverse benefit determinations, except to the extent that the plan or procedures provide that:
(i) The arbitration is conducted as one of the two appeals described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and in accordance with the requirements applicable to such appeals; and
(ii) The claimant is not precluded from challenging the decision under section 502(a) of the Act or other applicable law.
(d)
Plans providing disability benefits.
The claims procedures of a plan that provides disability benefits will be deemed to be reasonable only if the claims procedures comply, with respect to claims for disability benefits, with the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section.
(e)
Claim for benefits.
For purposes of this section, a claim for benefits is a request for a plan benefit or benefits made by a claimant in accordance with a plan's reasonable procedure for filing benefit claims. In the case of a group health plan, a claim for benefits includes any pre-service claims within the meaning of paragraph (m)(2) of this section and any post-service claims within the meaning of paragraph (m)(3) of this section.
(f)
Timing of notification of benefit determination
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, if a claim is wholly or partially denied, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, of the plan's adverse benefit determination within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 90 days after receipt of the claim by the plan, unless the plan administrator determines that
special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. If the plan administrator determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of 90 days from the end of such initial period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the plan expects to render the benefit determination.
(2)
Group health plans.
In the case of a group health plan, the plan administrator shall notify a claimant of the plan's benefit determination in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i), (f)(2)(ii), or (f)(2)(iii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i)
Urgent care claims.
In the case of a claim involving urgent care, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant of the plan's benefit determination (whether adverse or not) as soon as possible, taking into account the medical exigencies, but not later than 72 hours after receipt of the claim by the plan, unless the claimant fails to provide sufficient information to determine whether, or to what extent, benefits are covered or payable under the plan. In the case of such a failure, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours after receipt of the claim by the plan, of the specific information necessary to complete the claim. The claimant shall be afforded a reasonable amount of time, taking into account the circumstances, but not less than 48 hours, to provide the specified information. Notification of any adverse benefit determination pursuant to this paragraph (f)(2)(i) shall be made in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. The plan administrator shall notify the claimant of the plan's benefit determination as soon as possible, but in no case later than 48 hours after the earlier of—
(A) The plan's receipt of the specified information, or
(B) The end of the period afforded the claimant to provide the specified additional information.
(ii)
Concurrent care decisions.
If a group health plan has approved an ongoing course of treatment to be provided over a period of time or number of treatments—
(A) Any reduction or termination by the plan of such course of treatment (other than by plan amendment or termination) before the end of such period of time or number of treatments shall constitute an adverse benefit determination. The plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, of the adverse benefit determination at a time sufficiently in advance of the reduction or termination to allow the claimant to appeal and obtain a determination on review of that adverse benefit determination before the benefit is reduced or terminated.
(B) Any request by a claimant to extend the course of treatment beyond the period of time or number of treatments that is a claim involving urgent care shall be decided as soon as possible, taking into account the medical exigencies, and the plan administrator shall notify the claimant of the benefit determination, whether adverse or not, within 24 hours after receipt of the claim by the plan, provided that any such claim is made to the plan at least 24 hours prior to the expiration of the prescribed period of time or number of treatments. Notification of any adverse benefit determination concerning a request to extend the course of treatment, whether involving urgent care or not, shall be made in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, and appeal shall be governed by paragraph (i)(2)(i), (i)(2)(ii), or (i)(2)(iii), as appropriate.
(iii)
Other claims.
In the case of a claim not described in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) or (f)(2)(ii) of this section, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant of the plan's benefit determination in accordance with either paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) or (f)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, as appropriate.
(A)
Pre-service claims.
In the case of a pre-service claim, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant of the plan's benefit determination (whether adverse or not) within a reasonable period of time appropriate to the medical circumstances, but not later than 15
days after receipt of the claim by the plan. This period may be extended one time by the plan for up to 15 days, provided that the plan administrator both determines that such an extension is necessary due to matters beyond the control of the plan and notifies the claimant, prior to the expiration of the initial 15-day period, of the circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the plan expects to render a decision. If such an extension is necessary due to a failure of the claimant to submit the information necessary to decide the claim, the notice of extension shall specifically describe the required information, and the claimant shall be afforded at least 45 days from receipt of the notice within which to provide the specified information. Notification of any adverse benefit determination pursuant to this paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) shall be made in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(B)
Post-service claims.
In the case of a post-service claim, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, of the plan's adverse benefit determination within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 30 days after receipt of the claim. This period may be extended one time by the plan for up to 15 days, provided that the plan administrator both determines that such an extension is necessary due to matters beyond the control of the plan and notifies the claimant, prior to the expiration of the initial 30-day period, of the circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the plan expects to render a decision. If such an extension is necessary due to a failure of the claimant to submit the information necessary to decide the claim, the notice of extension shall specifically describe the required information, and the claimant shall be afforded at least 45 days from receipt of the notice within which to provide the specified information.
(3)
Disability claims.
In the case of a claim for disability benefits, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, of the plan's adverse benefit determination within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 45 days after receipt of the claim by the plan. This period may be extended by the plan for up to 30 days, provided that the plan administrator both determines that such an extension is necessary due to matters beyond the control of the plan and notifies the claimant, prior to the expiration of the initial 45-day period, of the circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the plan expects to render a decision. If, prior to the end of the first 30-day extension period, the administrator determines that, due to matters beyond the control of the plan, a decision cannot be rendered within that extension period, the period for making the determination may be extended for up to an additional 30 days, provided that the plan administrator notifies the claimant, prior to the expiration of the first 30-day extension period, of the circumstances requiring the extension and the date as of which the plan expects to render a decision. In the case of any extension under this paragraph (f)(3), the notice of extension shall specifically explain the standards on which entitlement to a benefit is based, the unresolved issues that prevent a decision on the claim, and the additional information needed to resolve those issues, and the claimant shall be afforded at least 45 days within which to provide the specified information.
(4)
Calculating time periods.
For purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, the period of time within which a benefit determination is required to be made shall begin at the time a claim is filed in accordance with the reasonable procedures of a plan, without regard to whether all the information necessary to make a benefit determination accompanies the filing. In the event that a period of time is extended as permitted pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(iii) or (f)(3) of this section due to a claimant's failure to submit information necessary to decide a claim, the period for making the benefit determination shall be tolled from the date on which the notification of the extension is sent to the claimant until the date on which the claimant responds to the request for additional information.
(g)
Manner and content of notification of benefit determination.
(1) Except as
provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the plan administrator shall provide a claimant with written or electronic notification of any adverse benefit determination. Any electronic notification shall comply with the standards imposed by 29 CFR 2520.104b-1(c)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv), or with the standards imposed by 29 CFR 2520.104b-31 (for pension benefit plans). The notification shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant—
(i) The specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination;
(ii) Reference to the specific plan provisions on which the determination is based;
(iii) A description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary;
(iv) A description of the plan's review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of the Act following an adverse benefit determination on review;
(v) In the case of an adverse benefit determination by a group health plan—
(A) If an internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination, either the specific rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion; or a statement that such a rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination and that a copy of such rule, guideline, protocol, or other criterion will be provided free of charge to the claimant upon request; or
(B) If the adverse benefit determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, either an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the plan to the claimant's medical circumstances, or a statement that such explanation will be provided free of charge upon request.
(vi) In the case of an adverse benefit determination by a group health plan concerning a claim involving urgent care, a description of the expedited review process applicable to such claims.
(vii) In the case of an adverse benefit determination with respect to disability benefits—
(A) A discussion of the decision, including an explanation of the basis for disagreeing with or not following:
(
i
) The views presented by the claimant to the plan of health care professionals treating the claimant and vocational professionals who evaluated the claimant;
(
ii
) The views of medical or vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the plan in connection with a claimant's adverse benefit determination, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in making the benefit determination; and
(
iii
) A disability determination regarding the claimant presented by the claimant to the plan made by the Social Security Administration;
(B) If the adverse benefit determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, either an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the plan to the claimant's medical circumstances, or a statement that such explanation will be provided free of charge upon request;
(C) Either the specific internal rules, guidelines, protocols, standards or other similar criteria of the plan relied upon in making the adverse determination or, alternatively, a statement that such rules, guidelines, protocols, standards or other similar criteria of the plan do not exist; and
(D) A statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. Whether a document, record, or other information is relevant to a claim for benefits shall be determined by reference to paragraph (m)(8) of this section.
(viii) In the case of an adverse benefit determination with respect to disability benefits, the notification shall be provided in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner (as described in paragraph (o) of this section).
(2) In the case of an adverse benefit determination by a group health plan concerning a claim involving urgent care, the information described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section may be provided to the claimant orally within the time frame prescribed in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, provided that a written or electronic notification in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section is furnished to the claimant not later than 3 days after the oral notification.
(h)
Appeal of adverse benefit determinations
—(1)
In general.
Every employee benefit plan shall establish and maintain a procedure by which a claimant shall have a reasonable opportunity to appeal an adverse benefit determination to an appropriate named fiduciary of the plan, and under which there will be a full and fair review of the claim and the adverse benefit determination.
(2)
Full and fair review.
Except as provided in paragraphs (h)(3) and (h)(4) of this section, the claims procedures of a plan will not be deemed to provide a claimant with a reasonable opportunity for a full and fair review of a claim and adverse benefit determination unless the claims procedures—
(i) Provide claimants at least 60 days following receipt of a notification of an adverse benefit determination within which to appeal the determination;
(ii) Provide claimants the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits;
(iii) Provide that a claimant shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. Whether a document, record, or other information is relevant to a claim for benefits shall be determined by reference to paragraph (m)(8) of this section;
(iv) Provide for a review that takes into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.
(3)
Group health plans.
The claims procedures of a group health plan will not be deemed to provide a claimant with a reasonable opportunity for a full and fair review of a claim and adverse benefit determination unless, in addition to complying with the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section, the claims procedures—
(i) Provide claimants at least 180 days following receipt of a notification of an adverse benefit determination within which to appeal the determination;
(ii) Provide for a review that does not afford deference to the initial adverse benefit determination and that is conducted by an appropriate named fiduciary of the plan who is neither the individual who made the adverse benefit determination that is the subject of the appeal, nor the subordinate of such individual;
(iii) Provide that, in deciding an appeal of any adverse benefit determination that is based in whole or in part on a medical judgment, including determinations with regard to whether a particular treatment, drug, or other item is experimental, investigational, or not medically necessary or appropriate, the appropriate named fiduciary shall consult with a health care professional who has appropriate training and experience in the field of medicine involved in the medical judgment;
(iv) Provide for the identification of medical or vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the plan in connection with a claimant's adverse benefit determination, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in making the benefit determination;
(v) Provide that the health care professional engaged for purposes of a consultation under paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section shall be an individual who is neither an individual who was consulted in connection with the adverse benefit determination that is the subject of the appeal, nor the subordinate of any such individual; and
(vi) Provide, in the case of a claim involving urgent care, for an expedited review process pursuant to which—
(A) A request for an expedited appeal of an adverse benefit determination may be submitted orally or in writing by the claimant; and
(B) All necessary information, including the plan's benefit determination on review, shall be transmitted between the plan and the claimant by telephone, facsimile, or other available similarly expeditious method.
(4)
Plans providing disability benefits.
The claims procedures of a plan providing disability benefits will not, with respect to claims for such benefits, be deemed to provide a claimant with a reasonable opportunity for a full and fair review of a claim and adverse benefit determination unless, in addition to complying with the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(ii) through (iv) and (h)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, the claims procedures—
(i) Provide that before the plan can issue an adverse benefit determination on review on a disability benefit claim, the plan administrator shall provide the claimant, free of charge, with any new or additional evidence considered, relied upon, or generated by the plan, insurer, or other person making the benefit determination (or at the direction of the plan, insurer or such other person) in connection with the claim; such evidence must be provided as soon as possible and sufficiently in advance of the date on which the notice of adverse benefit determination on review is required to be provided under paragraph (i) of this section to give the claimant a reasonable opportunity to respond prior to that date; and
(ii) Provide that, before the plan can issue an adverse benefit determination on review on a disability benefit claim based on a new or additional rationale, the plan administrator shall provide the claimant, free of charge, with the rationale; the rationale must be provided as soon as possible and sufficiently in advance of the date on which the notice of adverse benefit determination on review is required to be provided under paragraph (i) of this section to give the claimant a reasonable opportunity to respond prior to that date.
(i)
Timing of notification of benefit determination on review
—(1)
In general.
(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(1)(ii), (i)(2), and (i)(3) of this section, the plan administrator shall notify a claimant in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section of the plan's benefit determination on review within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 60 days after receipt of the claimant's request for review by the plan, unless the plan administrator determines that special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing, if the plan's procedures provide for a hearing) require an extension of time for processing the claim. If the plan administrator determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the initial 60-day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of 60 days from the end of the initial period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the plan expects to render the determination on review.
(ii) In the case of a plan with a committee or board of trustees designated as the appropriate named fiduciary that holds regularly scheduled meetings at least quarterly, paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section shall not apply, and, except as provided in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section, the appropriate named fiduciary shall instead make a benefit determination no later than the date of the meeting of the committee or board that immediately follows the plan's receipt of a request for review, unless the request for review is filed within 30 days preceding the date of such meeting. In such case, a benefit determination may be made by no later than the date of the second meeting following the plan's receipt of the request for review. If special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing, if the plan's procedures provide for a hearing) require a further extension of time for processing, a benefit determination shall be rendered not later than the third meeting of the committee or board following the plan's receipt of the request for review. If such an extension of time for review is required because of special circumstances, the plan administrator shall provide the claimant with written notice of the extension, describing the special circumstances and the date as of which the benefit determination will be made, prior to the commencement
of the extension. The plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section, of the benefit determination as soon as possible, but not later than 5 days after the benefit determination is made.
(2)
Group health plans.
In the case of a group health plan, the plan administrator shall notify a claimant of the plan's benefit determination on review in accordance with paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii), as appropriate.
(i)
Urgent care claims.
In the case of a claim involving urgent care, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section, of the plan's benefit determination on review as soon as possible, taking into account the medical exigencies, but not later than 72 hours after receipt of the claimant's request for review of an adverse benefit determination by the plan.
(ii)
Pre-service claims.
In the case of a pre-service claim, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section, of the plan's benefit determination on review within a reasonable period of time appropriate to the medical circumstances. In the case of a group health plan that provides for one appeal of an adverse benefit determination, such notification shall be provided not later than 30 days after receipt by the plan of the claimant's request for review of an adverse benefit determination. In the case of a group health plan that provides for two appeals of an adverse determination, such notification shall be provided, with respect to any one of such two appeals, not later than 15 days after receipt by the plan of the claimant's request for review of the adverse determination.
(iii)
Post-service claims.
(A) In the case of a post-service claim, except as provided in paragraph (i)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section, of the plan's benefit determination on review within a reasonable period of time. In the case of a group health plan that provides for one appeal of an adverse benefit determination, such notification shall be provided not later than 60 days after receipt by the plan of the claimant's request for review of an adverse benefit determination. In the case of a group health plan that provides for two appeals of an adverse determination, such notification shall be provided, with respect to any one of such two appeals, not later than 30 days after receipt by the plan of the claimant's request for review of the adverse determination.
(B) In the case of a multiemployer plan with a committee or board of trustees designated as the appropriate named fiduciary that holds regularly scheduled meetings at least quarterly, paragraph (i)(2)(iii)(A) of this section shall not apply, and the appropriate named fiduciary shall instead make a benefit determination no later than the date of the meeting of the committee or board that immediately follows the plan's receipt of a request for review, unless the request for review is filed within 30 days preceding the date of such meeting. In such case, a benefit determination may be made by no later than the date of the second meeting following the plan's receipt of the request for review. If special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing, if the plan's procedures provide for a hearing) require a further extension of time for processing, a benefit determination shall be rendered not later than the third meeting of the committee or board following the plan's receipt of the request for review. If such an extension of time for review is required because of special circumstances, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant in writing of the extension, describing the special circumstances and the date as of which the benefit determination will be made, prior to the commencement of the extension. The plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section, of the benefit determination as soon as possible, but not later than 5 days after the benefit determination is made.
(3)
Disability claims.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section, claims involving disability benefits (whether the plan provides for one or two appeals) shall be governed by paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section, except that a period of 45 days shall apply
instead of 60 days for purposes of that paragraph.
(ii) In the case of a multiemployer plan with a committee or board of trustees designated as the appropriate named fiduciary that holds regularly scheduled meetings at least quarterly, paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply, and the appropriate named fiduciary shall instead make a benefit determination no later than the date of the meeting of the committee or board that immediately follows the plan's receipt of a request for review, unless the request for review is filed within 30 days preceding the date of such meeting. In such case, a benefit determination may be made by no later than the date of the second meeting following the plan's receipt of the request for review. If special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing, if the plan's procedures provide for a hearing) require a further extension of time for processing, a benefit determination shall be rendered not later than the third meeting of the committee or board following the plan's receipt of the request for review. If such an extension of time for review is required because of special circumstances, the plan administrator shall notify the claimant in writing of the extension, describing the special circumstances and the date as of which the benefit determination will be made, prior to the commencement of the extension. The plan administrator shall notify the claimant, in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section, of the benefit determination as soon as possible, but not later than 5 days after the benefit determination is made.
(4)
Calculating time periods.
For purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the period of time within which a benefit determination on review is required to be made shall begin at the time an appeal is filed in accordance with the reasonable procedures of a plan, without regard to whether all the information necessary to make a benefit determination on review accompanies the filing. In the event that a period of time is extended as permitted pursuant to paragraph (i)(1), (i)(2)(iii)(B), or (i)(3) of this section due to a claimant's failure to submit information necessary to decide a claim, the period for making the benefit determination on review shall be tolled from the date on which the notification of the extension is sent to the claimant until the date on which the claimant responds to the request for additional information.
(5)
Furnishing documents.
In the case of an adverse benefit determination on review, the plan administrator shall provide such access to, and copies of, documents, records, and other information described in paragraphs (j)(3), (j)(4), and (j)(5) of this section as is appropriate.
(j)
Manner and content of notification of benefit determination on review.
The plan administrator shall provide a claimant with written or electronic notification of a plan's benefit determination on review. Any electronic notification shall comply with the standards imposed by 29 CFR 2520.104b-1(c)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv), or with the standards imposed by 29 CFR 2520.104b-31 (for pension benefit plans). In the case of an adverse benefit determination, the notification shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant—
(1) The specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination;
(2) Reference to the specific plan provisions on which the benefit determination is based;
(3) A statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. Whether a document, record, or other information is relevant to a claim for benefits shall be determined by reference to paragraph (m)(8) of this section;
(4)(i) A statement describing any voluntary appeal procedures offered by the plan and the claimant's right to obtain the information about such procedures described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, and a statement of the claimant's right to bring an action under section 502(a) of the Act; and,
(ii) In the case of a plan providing disability benefits, in addition to the information described in paragraph (j)(4)(i) of this section, the statement of the claimant's right to bring an action under section 502(a) of the Act
shall also describe any applicable contractual limitations period that applies to the claimant's right to bring such an action, including the calendar date on which the contractual limitations period expires for the claim.
(5) In the case of a group health plan—
(i) If an internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination, either the specific rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion; or a statement that such rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination and that a copy of the rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion will be provided free of charge to the claimant upon request;
(ii) If the adverse benefit determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, either an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the plan to the claimant's medical circumstances, or a statement that such explanation will be provided free of charge upon request; and
(iii) The following statement: “You and your plan may have other voluntary alternative dispute resolution options, such as mediation. One way to find out what may be available is to contact your local U.S. Department of Labor Office and your State insurance regulatory agency.”
(6) In the case of an adverse benefit decision with respect to disability benefits—
(i) A discussion of the decision, including an explanation of the basis for disagreeing with or not following:
(A) The views presented by the claimant to the plan of health care professionals treating the claimant and vocational professionals who evaluated the claimant;
(B) The views of medical or vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the plan in connection with a claimant's adverse benefit determination, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in making the benefit determination; and
(C) A disability determination regarding the claimant presented by the claimant to the plan made by the Social Security Administration;
(ii) If the adverse benefit determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, either an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the plan to the claimant's medical circumstances, or a statement that such explanation will be provided free of change upon request; and
(iii) Either the specific internal rules, guidelines, protocols, standards or other similar criteria of the plan relied upon in making the adverse determination or, alternatively, a statement that such rules, guidelines, protocols, standards or other similar criteria of the plan do not exist.
(7) In the case of an adverse benefit determination on review with respect to a claim for disability benefits, the notification shall be provided in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner (as described in paragraph (o) of this section).
(k)
Preemption of State law.
(1) Nothing in this section shall be construed to supersede any provision of State law that regulates insurance, except to the extent that such law prevents the application of a requirement of this section.
(2)(i) For purposes of paragraph (k)(1) of this section, a State law regulating insurance shall not be considered to prevent the application of a requirement of this section merely because such State law establishes a review procedure to evaluate and resolve disputes involving adverse benefit determinations under group health plans so long as the review procedure is conducted by a person or entity other than the insurer, the plan, plan fiduciaries, the employer, or any employee or agent of any of the foregoing.
(ii) The State law procedures described in paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section are not part of the full and fair review required by section 503 of the Act. Claimants therefore need not exhaust such State law procedures prior to bringing suit under section 502(a) of the Act.
(l)
Failure to establish and follow reasonable claims procedures
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (l)(2)
of this section, in the case of the failure of a plan to establish or follow claims procedures consistent with the requirements of this section, a claimant shall be deemed to have exhausted the administrative remedies available under the plan and shall be entitled to pursue any available remedies under section 502(a) of the Act on the basis that the plan has failed to provide a reasonable claims procedure that would yield a decision on the merits of the claim.
(2)
Plans providing disability benefits.
(i) In the case of a claim for disability benefits, if the plan fails to strictly adhere to all the requirements of this section with respect to a claim, the claimant is deemed to have exhausted the administrative remedies available under the plan, except as provided in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section. Accordingly, the claimant is entitled to pursue any available remedies under section 502(a) of the Act on the basis that the plan has failed to provide a reasonable claims procedure that would yield a decision on the merits of the claim. If a claimant chooses to pursue remedies under section 502(a) of the Act under such circumstances, the claim or appeal is deemed denied on review without the exercise of discretion by an appropriate fiduciary.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section, the administrative remedies available under a plan with respect to claims for disability benefits will not be deemed exhausted based on
de minimis
violations that do not cause, and are not likely to cause, prejudice or harm to the claimant so long as the plan demonstrates that the violation was for good cause or due to matters beyond the control of the plan and that the violation occurred in the context of an ongoing, good faith exchange of information between the plan and the claimant. This exception is not available if the violation is part of a pattern or practice of violations by the plan. The claimant may request a written explanation of the violation from the plan, and the plan must provide such explanation within 10 days, including a specific description of its bases, if any, for asserting that the violation should not cause the administrative remedies available under the plan to be deemed exhausted. If a court rejects the claimant's request for immediate review under paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section on the basis that the plan met the standards for the exception under this paragraph (l)(2)(ii), the claim shall be considered as re-filed on appeal upon the plan's receipt of the decision of the court. Within a reasonable time after the receipt of the decision, the plan shall provide the claimant with notice of the resubmission.
(m)
Definitions.
The following terms shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in this paragraph (m) whenever such term is used in this section:
(1)(i) A “claim involving urgent care” is any claim for medical care or treatment with respect to which the application of the time periods for making non-urgent care determinations—
(A) Could seriously jeopardize the life or health of the claimant or the ability of the claimant to regain maximum function, or,
(B) In the opinion of a physician with knowledge of the claimant's medical condition, would subject the claimant to severe pain that cannot be adequately managed without the care or treatment that is the subject of the claim.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (m)(1)(iii) of this section, whether a claim is a “claim involving urgent care” within the meaning of paragraph (m)(1)(i)(A) of this section is to be determined by an individual acting on behalf of the plan applying the judgment of a prudent layperson who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine.
(iii) Any claim that a physician with knowledge of the claimant's medical condition determines is a “claim involving urgent care” within the meaning of paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section shall be treated as a “claim involving urgent care” for purposes of this section.
(2) The term “pre-service claim” means any claim for a benefit under a group health plan with respect to which the terms of the plan condition receipt of the benefit, in whole or in part, on approval of the benefit in advance of obtaining medical care.
(3) The term “post-service claim” means any claim for a benefit under a group health plan that is not a pre-service claim within the meaning of paragraph (m)(2) of this section.
(4) The term “adverse benefit determination” means:
(i) Any of the following: A denial, reduction, or termination of, or a failure to provide or make payment (in whole or in part) for, a benefit, including any such denial, reduction, termination, or failure to provide or make payment that is based on a determination of a participant's or beneficiary's eligibility to participate in a plan, and including, with respect to group health plans, a denial, reduction, or termination of, or a failure to provide or make payment (in whole or in part) for, a benefit resulting from the application of any utilization review, as well as a failure to cover an item or service for which benefits are otherwise provided because it is determined to be experimental or investigational or not medically necessary or appropriate; and
(ii) In the case of a plan providing disability benefits, the term “adverse benefit determination” also means any rescission of disability coverage with respect to a participant or beneficiary (whether or not, in connection with the rescission, there is an adverse effect on any particular benefit at that time). For this purpose, the term “rescission” means a cancellation or discontinuance of coverage that has retroactive effect, except to the extent it is attributable to a failure to timely pay required premiums or contributions towards the cost of coverage.
(5) The term “notice” or “notification” means the delivery or furnishing of information to an individual in a manner that satisfies the standards of 29 CFR 2520.104b-1(b) as appropriate with respect to material required to be furnished or made available to an individual.
(6) The term “group health plan” means an employee welfare benefit plan within the meaning of section 3(1) of the Act to the extent that such plan provides “medical care” within the meaning of section 733(a) of the Act.
(7) The term “health care professional” means a physician or other health care professional licensed, accredited, or certified to perform specified health services consistent with State law.
(8) A document, record, or other information shall be considered “relevant” to a claimant's claim if such document, record, or other information
(i) Was relied upon in making the benefit determination;
(ii) Was submitted, considered, or generated in the course of making the benefit determination, without regard to whether such document, record, or other information was relied upon in making the benefit determination;
(iii) Demonstrates compliance with the administrative processes and safeguards required pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section in making the benefit determination; or
(iv) In the case of a group health plan or a plan providing disability benefits, constitutes a statement of policy or guidance with respect to the plan concerning the denied treatment option or benefit for the claimant's diagnosis, without regard to whether such advice or statement was relied upon in making the benefit determination.
(n)
Apprenticeship plans.
This section does not apply to employee benefit plans that solely provide apprenticeship training benefits.
(o)
Standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate notices.
A plan is considered to provide relevant notices in a “culturally and linguistically appropriate manner” if the plan meets all the requirements of paragraph (o)(1) of this section with respect to the applicable non-English languages described in paragraph (o)(2) of this section.
(1)
Requirements.
(i) The plan must provide oral language services (such as a telephone customer assistance hotline) that include answering questions in any applicable non-English language and providing assistance with filing claims and appeals in any applicable non-English language;
(ii) The plan must provide, upon request, a notice in any applicable non-English language; and
(iii) The plan must include in the English versions of all notices, a statement prominently displayed in any applicable non-English language clearly
indicating how to access the language services provided by the plan.
(2)
Applicable non-English language.
With respect to an address in any United States county to which a notice is sent, a non-English language is an applicable non-English language if ten percent or more of the population residing in the county is literate only in the same non-English language, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary.
(p)
Applicability dates and temporarily applicable provisions.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (p)(2), (p)(3) and (p)(4) of this section, this section shall apply to claims filed under a plan on or after January 1, 2002.
(2) This section shall apply to claims filed under a group health plan on or after the first day of the first plan year beginning on or after July 1, 2002, but in no event later than January 1, 2003.
(3) Paragraphs (b)(7), (g)(1)(vii) and (viii), (j)(4)(ii), (j)(6) and (7), (l)(2), (m)(4)(ii), and (o) of this section shall apply to claims for disability benefits filed under a plan after April 1, 2018, in addition to the other paragraphs in this rule applicable to such claims.
(4) With respect to claims for disability benefits filed under a plan from January 18, 2017 through April 1, 2018, this paragraph (p)(4) shall apply instead of paragraphs (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), (h)(4), (j)(6) and (j)(7).
(i) In the case of a notification of benefit determination and a notification of benefit determination on review by a plan providing disability benefits, the notification shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant—
(A) If an internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination, either the specific rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion; or a statement that such a rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination and that a copy of such rule, guideline, protocol, or other criterion will be provided free of charge to the claimant upon request; and
(B) If the adverse benefit determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, either an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the plan to the claimant's medical circumstances, or a statement that such explanation will be provided free of charge upon request.
(ii) The claims procedures of a plan providing disability benefits will not, with respect to claims for such benefits, be deemed to provide a claimant with a reasonable opportunity for a full and fair review of a claim and adverse benefit determination unless the claims procedures comply with the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(ii) through (iv) and (h)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.
[65 FR 70265, Nov. 21, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 35887, July 9, 2001; 81 FR 92341, Dec. 19, 2016; 82 FR 56566, Nov. 29, 2017; 85 FR 31924, May 27, 2020; 85 FR 39831, July 2, 2020]
§ 2560.521-1
Cease and desist and seizure orders under section 521.
(a)
Purpose.
Section 521(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 29 U.S.C. 1151(a), authorizes the Secretary of Labor to issue an ex parte cease and desist order if it appears to the Secretary that the alleged conduct of a multiple employer welfare arrangement (MEWA) under section 3(40) of ERISA is fraudulent, or creates an immediate danger to the public safety or welfare, or is causing or can be reasonably expected to cause significant, imminent, and irreparable public injury. Section 521(e) of ERISA authorizes the Secretary to issue a summary seizure order if it appears that a MEWA is in a financially hazardous condition. An order may apply to a MEWA or to persons having custody or control of assets of the subject MEWA, any authority over management of the subject MEWA, or any role in the transaction of the subject MEWA's business. This section sets forth standards and procedures for the Secretary to issue ex parte cease and desist and summary seizure orders and for administrative review of the issuance of such cease and desist orders.
(b)
Definitions.
When used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed in this paragraph (b).
(1)
Multiple employer welfare arrangement
(MEWA) is an arrangement as defined in section 3(40) of ERISA that either is an employee welfare benefit plan subject to Title I of ERISA or offers benefits in connection with one or more employee welfare benefit plans subject to Title I of ERISA. For purposes of section 521 of ERISA, a MEWA does not include a health insurance issuer (including a health maintenance organization) that is licensed to offer or provide health insurance coverage to the public and employers at large in each State in which it offers or provides health insurance coverage, and that, in each such State, is subject to comprehensive licensure, solvency, and examination requirements that the State customarily requires for issuing health insurance policies to the public and employers at large. The term health insurance issuer does not include group health plans. For purposes of this section, the term “health insurance coverage” has the same meaning as in ERISA section 733(b)(1).
(2)
The conduct of a MEWA is fraudulent:
(i) When the MEWA or any person acting as an agent or employee of the MEWA commits an act or omission knowingly and with an intent to deceive or defraud plan participants, plan beneficiaries, employers or employee organizations, or other members of the public, the Secretary, or a State regarding:
(A) The financial condition of the MEWA (including the MEWA's solvency and the management of plan assets);
(B) The benefits provided by or in connection with the MEWA;
(C) The management, control, or administration of the MEWA;
(D) The existing or lawful regulatory status of the MEWA under Federal or State law; or,
(E) Any other material fact, as determined by the Secretary, relating to the MEWA or its operation.
(ii) Fraudulent conduct includes any false statement regarding any of paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (b)(2)(i)(E) of this section that is made with knowledge of its falsity or that is made with reckless indifference to the statement's truth or falsity, and the knowing concealment of material information regarding any of paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (b)(2)(i)(E) of this section. Examples of fraudulent conduct include, but are not limited to, misrepresenting the terms of the benefits offered by or in connection with the MEWA or the financial condition of the MEWA or engaging in deceptive acts or omissions in connection with marketing or sales or fees charged to employers or employee organizations.
(3)
The conduct of a MEWA creates an immediate danger to the public safety or welfare
if the conduct of a MEWA or any person acting as an agent or employee of the MEWA impairs, or threatens to impair, a MEWA's ability to pay claims or otherwise unreasonably increases the risk of nonpayment of benefits. Intent to create an immediate danger is not required for this criterion. Examples of such conduct include, but are not limited to, a systematic failure to properly process or pay benefit claims, including failure to establish and maintain a claims procedure that complies with the Secretary's claims procedure regulations (29 CFR 2560.503-1 and 29 CFR 2590.715-2719), failure to establish or maintain a recordkeeping system that tracks the claims made, paid, or processed or the MEWA's financial condition, a substantial failure to meet applicable disclosure, reporting, and other filing requirements, including the annual reporting and registration requirements under sections 101(g) and 104 of ERISA, failure to establish and implement a policy or method to determine that the MEWA is actuarially sound with appropriate reserves and adequate underwriting, failure to comply with a cease and desist order issued by a government agency or court, and failure to hold plan assets in trust.
(4)
The conduct of a MEWA is causing or can be reasonably expected to cause significant, imminent, and irreparable public injury:
(i) If the conduct of a MEWA, or of a person acting as an agent or employee of the MEWA, is having, or is reasonably expected to have, a significant and imminent negative effect on one or more of the following:
(A) An employee welfare benefit plan that is, or offers benefits in connection with, a MEWA;
(B) The sponsor of such plan or the employer or employee organization that makes payments for benefits provided by or in connection with a MEWA; or
(C) Plan participants and plan beneficiaries; and
(ii) If it is not reasonable to expect that such effect will be fully repaired or rectified.
Intent to cause injury is not required for this criterion. Examples of such conduct include, but are not limited to, conversion or concealment of property of the MEWA; improper disposal, transfer, or removal of funds or other property of the MEWA, including unreasonable compensation or payments to MEWA operators and service providers (e.g. brokers, marketers, and third party administrators); employment by the MEWA of a person prohibited from such employment pursuant to section 411 of ERISA, and embezzlement from the MEWA. For purposes of section 521 of ERISA, compensation that would be excessive under 26 CFR 1.162-7 will be considered unreasonable compensation or payments for purposes of this regulation. Depending upon the facts and circumstances, compensation may be unreasonable under this regulation even it is not excessive under 26 CFR 1.162-7.
(5)
A MEWA is in a financially hazardous condition if:
(i) The Secretary has probable cause to believe that a MEWA:
(A) Is, or is in imminent danger of becoming, unable to pay benefit claims as they come due, or
(B) Has sustained, or is in imminent danger of sustaining, a significant loss of assets; or
(ii) A person responsible for management, control, or administration of the MEWA's assets is the subject of a cease and desist order issued by the Secretary.
(6) A
person,
for purposes of this section, is an individual, partnership, corporation, employee welfare benefit plan, association, or other entity or organization.
(c)
Temporary cease and desist order.
(1)(i) The Secretary may issue a temporary cease and desist order when the Secretary finds there is reasonable cause to believe that the conduct of a MEWA, or any person acting as an agent or employee of the MEWA, is -
(A) Fraudulent;
(B) Creates an immediate danger to the public safety or welfare; or
(C) Is causing or can be reasonably expected to cause significant, imminent, and irreparable public injury.
(ii) A single act or omission may be the basis for a temporary cease and desist order.
(2) A temporary cease and desist order, as the Secretary determines is necessary and appropriate to stop the conduct on which the order is based, and to protect the interests of plan participants, plan beneficiaries, employers or employee organizations, or other members of the public, may—
(i) Prohibit specific conduct or prohibit the transaction of any business of the MEWA;
(ii) Prohibit any person from taking specified actions, or exercising authority or control, concerning funds or property of a MEWA or of any employee benefit plan, regardless of whether such funds or property have been commingled with other funds or property; and,
(iii) Bar any person either directly or indirectly, from providing management, administrative, or other services to any MEWA or to an employee benefit plan or trust.
(3) The Secretary may require documentation from the subject of the order verifying compliance.
(d)
Effect of order on other remedies.
The issuance of a temporary or final cease and desist order shall not foreclose the Secretary from seeking additional remedies under ERISA.
(e)
Administrative hearing.
(1) A temporary cease and desist order shall become a final order as to any MEWA or other person named in the order 30 days after such person receives notice of the order unless, within this period, such person requests a hearing in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (e).
(2) A person requesting a hearing must file a written request and an answer to the order showing cause why the order should be modified or set
aside. The request and the answer must be filed in accordance with 29 CFR part 2571 and § 18.4 of this title.
(3) A hearing shall be held expeditiously following the receipt of the request for a hearing by the Office of the Administrative Law Judges, unless the parties mutually consent, in writing, to a later date.
(4) The decision of the administrative law judge shall be issued expeditiously after the conclusion of the hearing.
(5) The Secretary must offer evidence supporting the findings made in issuing the order that there is reasonable cause to believe that the MEWA (or a person acting as an employee or agent of the MEWA) engaged in conduct specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(6) The person requesting the hearing has the burden to show that the order should be modified or set aside. To meet this burden such person must show by a preponderance of the evidence that the MEWA (or a person acting as an employee or agent of the MEWA) did not engage in conduct specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or must show that the requirements imposed by the order, are, in whole or part, arbitrary and capricious.
(7) Any temporary cease and desist order for which a hearing has been requested shall remain in effect and enforceable, pending completion of the administrative proceedings, unless stayed by the Secretary, an administrative law judge, or by a court.
(8) The Secretary may require that the hearing and all evidence be treated as confidential.
(f)
Summary seizure order.
(1) Subject to paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, the Secretary may issue a summary seizure order when the Secretary finds there is probable cause to believe that a MEWA is in a financially hazardous condition.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the Secretary, before issuing a summary seizure order to remove assets and records from the control and management of the MEWA or any persons having custody or control of such assets or records, shall obtain judicial authorization from a federal court in the form of a warrant or other appropriate form of authorization and may at that time pursue other actions such as those set forth in paragraph (f)(5) of this section.
(3) If the Secretary reasonably believes that any delay in issuing the order is likely to result in the removal, dissipation, or concealment of plan assets or records, the Secretary may issue and serve a summary seizure order before seeking court authorization. Promptly following service of the order, the Secretary shall seek authorization from a federal court and may at that time pursue other actions such as those set forth in paragraph (f)(5) of this section.
(4) A summary seizure order may authorize the Secretary to take possession or control of all or part of the books, records, accounts, and property of the MEWA (including the premises in which the MEWA transacts its business) to protect the benefits of plan participants, plan beneficiaries, employers or employee organizations, or other members of the public, and to safeguard the assets of employee welfare benefit plans. The order may also direct any person having control and custody of the assets that are the subject of the order not to allow any transfer or disposition of such assets except upon the written direction of the Secretary, or of a receiver or independent fiduciary appointed by a court.
(5) In connection with or following the execution of a summary seizure order, the Secretary may—
(i) Secure court appointment of a receiver or independent fiduciary to perform any necessary functions of the MEWA;
(ii) Obtain court authorization for the Secretary, the receiver or independent fiduciary to take any other action to seize, secure, maintain, or preserve the availability of the MEWA's assets; and
(iii) Obtain such other appropriate relief available under ERISA to protect the interest of employee welfare benefit plan participants, plan beneficiaries, employers or employee organizations or other members of the public. Other appropriate equitable relief may include the liquidation and winding up of the MEWA's affairs and, where applicable, the affairs of any person sponsoring the MEWA.
(g)
Effective date of orders.
Cease and desist and summary seizure orders are effective immediately upon issuance by the Secretary and shall remain effective, except to the extent and until any provision is modified or the order is set aside by the Secretary, an administrative law judge, or a court.
(h)
Service of orders.
(1) As soon as practicable after the issuance of a temporary or final cease and desist order and no later than five business days after issuance of a summary seizure order, the Secretary shall serve the order either:
(i) By delivering a copy to the person who is the subject of the order. If the person is a partnership, service may be made to any partner. If the person is a corporation, association, or other entity or organization, service may be made to any officer of such entity or any person designated for service of process under State law or the applicable plan document. If the person is an employee welfare benefit plan, service may be made to a trustee or administrator. A person's attorney may accept service on behalf of such person;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of such person or attorney; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of such person or attorney.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If service is done by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee.
(3) Service of a temporary or final cease and desist order and of a summary seizure order shall include a statement of the Secretary's findings giving rise to the order, and, where applicable, a copy of any warrant or other authorization by a court.
[78 FR 13805, Mar. 1, 2013]
§ 2560.521-2
Disclosure of order and proceedings.
(a) Notwithstanding § 2560.521-1(e)(8), the Secretary shall make available to the public final cease and desist and summary seizure orders or modifications and terminations of such final orders.
(b) Except as prohibited by applicable law, and at his or her discretion, the Secretary may disclose the issuance of a temporary cease and desist order or summary seizure order and information and evidence of any proceedings and hearings related to an order, to any Federal, State, or foreign authorities responsible for enforcing laws that apply to MEWAs and parties associated with, or providing services to, MEWAs.
(c) The sharing of such documents, material, or other information and evidence under this section does not constitute a waiver of any applicable privilege or claim of confidentiality.
[78 FR 13805, Mar. 1, 2013]
§ 2560.521-3
Effect on other enforcement authority.
The Secretary's authority under section 521 shall not be construed to limit the Secretary's ability to exercise his or her enforcement or investigatory authority under any other provision of title I of ERISA. 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
The Secretary may, in his or her sole discretion, initiate court proceedings without using the procedures in this section.
[78 FR 13805, Mar. 1, 2013]
§ 2560.521-4
Cross-reference.
See 29 CFR 2571.1 through 2571.13 for procedural rules relating to administrative hearings under section 521 of ERISA.
[78 FR 13805, Mar. 1, 2013]
Pt. 2570

# PART 2570—PROCEDURAL REGULATIONS UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT

# Subpart A—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Sanctions Under ERISA Section 502(i)
Sec.
2570.1
Scope of rules.
2570.2
Definitions.
2570.3
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
2570.4
Parties.
2570.5
Consequences of default.
2570.6
Consent order or settlement.
2570.7
Scope of discovery.
2570.8
Summary decision.
2570.9
Decision of the administrative law judge.
2570.10
Review by the Secretary.
2570.11
Scope of review.
2570.12
Procedures for review by the Secretary.

# Subpart B—Procedures Governing the Filing and Processing of Prohibited Transaction Exemption Applications
2570.30
Scope of this subpart.
2570.31
Definitions.
2570.32
Persons who may apply for exemptions and the administrative record.
2570.33
Applications the Department will not ordinarily consider.
2570.34
Information to be included in every exemption application.
2570.35
Information to be included in applications for individual exemptions only.
2570.36
Where to file an application.
2570.37
Duty to amend and supplement exemption applications.
2570.38
Tentative denial letters.
2570.39
Opportunities to submit additional information.
2570.40
Conferences.
2570.41
Final denial letters.
2570.42
Notice of proposed exemption.
2570.43
Notification of interested persons by applicant.
2570.44
Withdrawal of exemption applications.
2570.45
Requests for reconsideration.
2570.46
Hearings in opposition to exemptions from restrictions on fiduciary self-dealing and conflicts of interest.
2570.47
Other hearings.
2570.48
Decision to grant exemptions.
2570.49
Limits on the effect of exemptions.
2570.50
Revocation or modification of exemptions.
2570.51
Public inspection and copies.
2570.52
Effective date.

# Subpart C—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(2)
2570.60
Scope of rules.
2570.61
Definitions.
2570.62
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
2570.63
Parties, how designated.
2570.64
Consequences of default.
2570.65
Consent order or settlement.
2570.66
Scope of discovery.
2570.67
Summary decision.
2570.68
Decision of the administrative law judge.
2570.69
Review by the Secretary.
2570.70
Scope of review.
2570.71
Procedures for review by the Secretary.

# Subpart D—Procedure for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(l)
2570.80
Scope of rules.
2570.81
In general.
2570.82
Definitions.
2570.83
Assessment of civil penalty.
2570.84
Payment of civil penalty.
2570.85
Waiver or reduction of civil penalty.
2570.86
Reduction of penalty by other penalty assessments.
2570.87
Revision of assessment.
2570.88
Effective date.

# Subpart E—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(5)
2570.90
Scope of Rules.
2570.91
Definitions.
2570.92
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
2570.93
Parties, how designated.
2570.94
Consequences of default.
2570.95
Consent order or settlement.
2570.96
Scope of discovery.
2570.97
Summary decision.
2570.98
Decision of the administrative law judge.
2570.99
Review by the Secretary.
2570.100
Scope of review.
2570.101
Procedures for review by the Secretary.

# Subpart F—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(6)
2570.110
Scope of rules.
2570.111
Definitions.
2570.112
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
2570.113
Parties, how designated.
2570.114
Consequences of default.
2570.115
Consent order or settlement.
2570.116
Scope of discovery.
2570.117
Summary decision.
2570.118
Decision of the administrative law judge.
2570.119
Review by the Secretary.
2570.120
Scope of review.
2570.121
Procedures for review by the Secretary.

# Subpart G—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties under ERISA Section 502(c)(7)
2570.130
Scope of rules.
2570.131
Definitions.
2570.132
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
2570.133
Parties, how designated.
2570.134
Consequences of default.
2570.135
Consent order or settlement.
2570.136
Scope of discovery.
2570.137
Summary decision.
2570.138
Decision of the administrative law judge.
2570.139
Review by the Secretary.
2570.140
Scope of review.
2570.141
Procedures for review by the Secretary.

# Subpart H—Procedures for Issuance of Findings Under ERISA Sec. 3(40)
2570.150
Scope of rules.
2570.151
In general.
2570.152
Definitions.
2570.153
Parties.
2570.154
Filing and contents of petition.
2570.155
Service.
2570.156
Expedited proceedings.
2570.157
Allocation of burden of proof.
2570.158
Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
2570.159
Review by the Secretary.

# Subpart I—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(8)
2570.160
Scope of rules.
2570.161
Definitions.
2570.162
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
2570.163
Parties, how designated.
2570.164
Consequences of default.
2570.165
Consent order or settlement.
2570.166
Scope of discovery.
2570.167
Summary decision.
2570.168
Decision of the administrative law judge.
2570.169
Review by the Secretary.
2570.170
Scope of review.
2570.171
Procedures for review by the Secretary.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8477; 29 U.S.C. 1002(40), 1021, 1108, 1132, and 1135; sec. 102, Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978, 5 U.S.C. App at 672 (2006); Secretary of Labor's Order 3-2010, 75 FR 55354 (September 10, 2010)
Subpart I is also issued under 29 U.S.C. 1132(c)(8).

# Source:
53 FR 37476, Sept. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Sanctions Under ERISA Section 502(i)
§ 2570.1
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this part are applicable to “prohibited transaction penalty proceedings” (as defined in § 2570.2(o) of this part) under section 502(i) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The rules of procedure for administrative hearings published by the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges at part 18 of this title will apply to matters arising under ERISA section 502(i) except as modified by this section. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2570.2
Definitions.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of the definitions in § 18.2 of this title:
(a)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding leading to the formulation of a final order;
(b)
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105;
(c)
Answer
is defined for these proceedings as set forth in § 18.5(d)(2) of this title;
(d)
Commencement of proceeding
is the filing of an answer by the respondent;
(e)
Consent agreement
means any written document containing a specified proposed remedy or other relief acceptable to the Department and consenting parties;
(f)
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(g)
Final order
means the final decision or action of the Department of Labor concerning the assessment of a civil sanction under ERISA section 502(i) against a particular party. Such final order may result from a decision of an administrative law judge or the Secretary, or the failure of a party to invoke the procedures for hearings or appeals under this title. Such a final order shall constitute final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704;
(h)
Hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, to the administrative law judge;
(i)
Notice
means any document, however designated, issued by the Department of Labor which initiates an adjudicatory proceeding under ERISA section 502(i);
(j)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a matter under ERISA section 502(i);
(k)
Party
includes a person or agency named or admitted as a party to a proceeding;
(l)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, exchange or other entity or organization;
(m)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person or party, for some affirmative action;
(n)
Pleading
means the notice, the answer to the notice, any supplement or amendment thereto, and any reply that may be permitted to any answer, supplement or amendment;
(o)
Prohibited transaction penalty proceeding
means a proceeding relating to the assessment of the civil penalty provided for in section 502(i) of ERISA;
(p)
Respondent
means the party against whom the Department is seeking to assess a civil sanction under ERISA section 502(i);
(q)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor and includes, pursuant to any delegation of authority by the Secretary, any assistant secretary (including the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security), administrator, commissioner, appellate body, board, or other official;
(r)
Solicitor
means the Solicitor of Labor or his or her delegate.
§ 2570.3
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.3 of this title.
(a)
General.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record. All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ regional Office to which the proceedings may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions, petitions, pleadings, briefs or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy including any attachments to all other parties of record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing a copy to the last known address. The Department shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA Section 502(i) Proceeding, P.O. Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions and all other documents, except notices, shall be made by regular mail to the last known address.
(d)
Service of notices.
(1) Service of notices shall be made either:
(i) By delivering a copy to the individual, any partner, any officer of a corporation, or any attorney of record;
(ii) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of such individual, partner, officer or attorney; or
(iii) By mailing a copy to the last known address of such individual, partner, officer or attorney.
(2) If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If done by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee.
(e)
Form of pleadings.
(1) Every pleading shall contain information indicating the name of the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss, etc.). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they
should be typewritten when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
[53 FR 37476, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 7191, Feb. 11, 2000; 68 FR 17508, Apr. 9, 2003]
§ 2570.4
Parties.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.10 of this title.
(a) The term
party
wherever used in these rules shall include any natural person, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, firm, partnership, trustee, receiver, agency, public or private organization, or government agency. A party against whom a civil sanction is sought shall be designated as “respondent.” The Department shall be designated as the “complainant.”
(b) Other persons or organizations shall be permitted to participate as parties only if the administrative law judge finds that the final decision could directly and adversely affect them or the class they represent, that they may contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings and their interest is not adequately represented by existing parties, and that in the discretion of the administrative law judge the participation of such persons or organizations would be appropriate.
(c) A person or organization not named as a respondent wishing to participate as a party under this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within fifteen (15) days after the person or organization has knowledge of or should have known about the proceeding. The petition shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on each person or organization who has been made a party at the time of filing. Such petition shall concisely state:
(1) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;
(2) How his or her participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the proceeding;
(3) Who will appear for petitioner;
(4) The issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(5) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(d) Objections to the petition may be filed by a party within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the petition. If objections to the petition are filed, the administrative law judge shall then determine whether petitioners have the requisite interest to be a party in the proceedings, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the administrative law judge may request all such petititioners to designate a single representative, or he or she may recognize one or more of such petitioners. The administrative law judge shall give each such petitioner as well as the parties, written notice of the decision on his or her petition. For each petition granted, the administrative law judge shall provide a brief statement of the basis of the decision. If the petition is denied, he or she shall briefly state the grounds for denial and shall then treat the petition as a request for participation as amicus curiae.
§ 2570.5
Consequences of default.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.5(b) of this title. Failure of the respondent to file an answer within the 30 day time period provided in § 18.5 of this title shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of his right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice, and such failure shall be deemed to be an admission of the facts as alleged in the notice for purposes of the prohibited transaction penalty proceeding. Such notice shall then become the final order of the Secretary, except that the administrative law judge may set aside a default entered under this provision where there is proof of defective notice.
§ 2570.6
Consent order or settlement.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, the following shall apply in lieu of § 18.9 of this title.
(a)
General.
At any time after the commencement of a proceeding, but at
least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time to permit negotiation of a settlement or an agreement containing findings and an order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such deferment and the duration thereof shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge, after consideration of such factors as the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties and the probability of reaching an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issues involved.
(b)
Content.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which any order may be based shall consist solely of the notice and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge;
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the order and decision entered into in accordance with the agreement; and
(5) That the order and decision of the administrative law judge shall be final agency action.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, but, in any case, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties or their authorized representative or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order to the administrative law judge; or
(2) Notify the administrative law judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action subject to compliance with the terms of the settlement; or
(3) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
In the event a settlement agreement containing consent findings and an order is submitted within the time allowed therefor, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision incorporating such findings and agreement within thirty (30) days of his receipt of such document. The decision of the administrative law judge shall incorporate all of the findings, terms, and conditions of the settlement agreement and consent order of the parties. Such decision shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(e)
Settlement without consent of all parties.
In cases in which some, but not all, of the parties to a proceeding submit a consent agreement to the administrative law judge, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) If all of the parties have not consented to the proposed settlement submitted to the administrative law judge, then such non-consenting parties must receive notice, and a copy, of the proposed settlement at the time it is submitted to the administrative law judge;
(2) Any non-consenting party shall have fifteen (15) days to file any objections to the proposed settlement with the administrative law judge and all other parties;
(3) If any party submits an objection to the proposed settlement, the administrative law judge shall decide within thirty (30) days after receipt of such objections whether he shall sign or reject the proposed settlement. Where the record lacks substantial evidence upon which to base a decision or there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the administrative law judge may establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence upon which a decision on the contested issues may reasonably be based;
(4) If there are no objections to the proposed settlement, or if the administrative law judge decides to sign the proposed settlement after reviewing any such objections, the administrative law judge shall incorporate the consent agreement into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 2570.7
Scope of discovery.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.14 of this title.
(a) A party may file a motion to conduct discovery with the administrative law judge. The motion for discovery shall be granted by the administrative law judge only upon a showing of good cause. In order to establish “good cause” for the purposes of this section, a party must show that the discovery requested relates to a genuine issue as to a material fact that is relevant to the proceeding. The order of the administrative law judge shall expressly limit the scope and terms of discovery to that for which “good cause” has been shown, as provided in this paragraph.
(b) A party may obtain discovery of documents and tangible things otherwise discoverable under paragraph (a) of this section and prepared in anticipation of or for the hearing by or for another party's representative (including his or her attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent) only upon a showing that the party seeking discovery has substantial need of the materials or information in the preparation of his or her case and that he or she is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials or information by other means. In ordering discovery of such materials when the required showing has been made, the administrative law judge shall protect against disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representative of a party concerning the proceeding.
§ 2570.8
Summary decision.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.41 of this title.
(a)
No genuine issue of material fact.
(1) Where no genuine issue of a material fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge may issue a decision which, in the absence of an appeal pursuant to §§ 2570.10-2570.12 of this part, shall become a final order.
(2) A decision made under this paragraph shall include a statement of:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons therefor, on all issues presented; and
(ii) Any terms and conditions of the rule or order.
(3) A copy of any decision under this paragraph shall be served on each party.
(b)
Hearings on issue of fact.
Where a genuine question of material fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing.
§ 2570.9
Decision of the administrative law judge.
For prohibited transaction penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.57 of this title.
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and brief shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision of the administrative law judge.
Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within thirty (30) days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the administrative law judge shall make his or her decision. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law with reasons therefor upon each material issue of fact of law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record. In a contested case in which the Department and the Respondent have presented their positions to the administrative law judge pursuant to the procedures for prohibited transaction penalty proceedings as set forth in this part, the penalty (if any) which may be included in the decision of the administrative law judge shall be limited to the sanction expressly provided for in section 502(i) of
ERISA. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 unless an appeal is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 2570.10 through 2570.12.
§ 2570.10
Review by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may review a decision of an administrative law judge. Such a review may occur only when a party files a notice of appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge within twenty (20) days of the issuance of such decision. In all other cases, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A notice of appeal to the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the decision of the administrative law judge on which the party is seeking review. Such notice of appeal must be served on all parties of record.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to submit to him a copy of the entire record before the administrative law judge.
§ 2570.11
Scope of review.
The review of the Secretary shall not be a
de novo
proceeding but rather a review of the record established before the administrative law judge. There shall be no opportunity for oral argument.
§ 2570.12
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
(a) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall establish a briefing schedule which shall be served on all parties of record. Upon motion of one or more of the parties, the Secretary may, in his discretion, permit the submission of reply briefs.
(b) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible after receipt of the briefs of the parties. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision on appeal and shall issue a statement of reasons and bases for the action(s) taken. Such decision by the Secretary shall be final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart B—Procedures Governing the Filing and Processing of Prohibited Transaction Exemption Applications

# Source:
89 FR 4691, Jan. 24, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.30
Scope of this subpart.
(a) The rules of procedure set forth in this subpart apply to applications for prohibited transaction exemptions issued by the Department under the authority of:
(1) Section 408(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA);
(2) Section 4975(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code); or

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(2):
See H.R. Rep. No. 1280, 93d Cong., 2d Sess. 310 (1974), and also section 102 of Presidential Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978 (3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 332, reprinted in 5 U.S.C. app. at 672 (2006), and in 92 Stat. 3790 (1978)), effective December 31, 1978, which generally transferred the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to issue administrative exemptions under section 4975(c)(2) of the Code to the Department.
(3) The Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA) (5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3)).
(b) Under the rules of procedure in this subpart, the Department may conditionally or unconditionally exempt any fiduciary or transaction, or class of fiduciaries or transactions, from all or part of the restrictions imposed by ERISA section 406 and the corresponding restrictions of the Code and FERSA. While administrative exemptions granted under the rules in this subpart are ordinarily prospective in nature, it is possible that an applicant may obtain retroactive relief for past prohibited transactions if, among other things, the Department determines that appropriate safeguards were in place at the time the exemption transaction was consummated, and no plan participants or beneficiaries were harmed by the exemption transaction.
(c) The rules in this subpart govern the filing and processing of applications for both individual and class exemptions that the Department may propose and grant pursuant to the authorities cited in paragraph (a) of this
section. The Department may also propose and grant exemptions on its own motion, in which case the procedures relating to publication of notices, hearings, evaluation, and public inspection of the administrative record, and modification or revocation of previously granted exemptions will apply.
(d) The issuance of an administrative exemption by the Department under the procedural rules in this subpart does not relieve a fiduciary or other party in interest or disqualified person with respect to a plan from the obligation to comply with certain other provisions of ERISA, the Code, or FERSA, including any prohibited transaction provisions to which the exemption does not apply, and the general fiduciary responsibility provisions of ERISA, if applicable, which require, among other things, fiduciaries to discharge their duties respecting the plan solely in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan and in a prudent fashion; nor does it affect the requirements of Code section 401(a), including that the plan must operate for the exclusive benefit of the employees of the employer maintaining the plan and their beneficiaries, or the rules with respect to other Code provisions, including that an administrative exemption with respect to a contribution to a pension plan does not affect the deductibility of the contribution under Code section 404.
(e) The Department will not propose or issue exemptions upon oral request alone, nor will the Department grant exemptions orally. An applicant for an administrative exemption may request and receive oral feedback from Department employees in preparing an exemption application, which will not be binding on the Department in its processing of an exemption application or in its examination or audit of a plan.
(f) The Department will generally treat any exemption application that is filed solely under ERISA section 408(a) or solely under Code section 4975(c)(2) as an exemption request filed under both ERISA section 408(a) and Code section 4975(c)(2) if it relates to a plan that is subject to both ERISA and the Code and the exemption transaction would be prohibited by both ERISA and the corresponding Code provisions.
(g) The Department issues an administrative exemption at its sole discretion based on the statutory criteria set forth in ERISA section 408(a) and Code section 4975(c)(2). The existence of previously issued administrative exemptions is not determinative of whether the Department will propose future exemptions for applications with the same or similar facts, or whether a proposed exemption will contain the same conditions as a previously issued administrative exemption. Previously issued administrative exemptions, however, may inform the Department's determination of whether to propose future exemptions based on the unique facts and circumstances of each application.
§ 2570.31
Definitions.
For purposes of the procedures in this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(a) An
affiliate of a person
means—
(1) Any person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the person. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1), the term “control” means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual;
(2) Any officer, director, partner, employee, or relative (as defined in ERISA section 3(15)) of any such person; or
(3) Any corporation, partnership, trust, or unincorporated enterprise of which such person is an officer, director, partner, or five percent or more owner.
(b) A
class exemption
is an administrative exemption, granted under ERISA section 408(a), Code section 4975(c)(2), and/or 5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3), which applies to any transaction and party in interest within the class of transactions and parties in interest specified in the exemption when the conditions of the exemption are satisfied.
(c)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Labor and includes the Secretary of Labor or their delegate exercising authority with respect to prohibited transaction exemptions to which this subpart applies.
(d)
Exemption transaction
means the transaction or transactions for which an exemption is requested.
(e) An
individual exemption
is an administrative exemption, granted under ERISA section 408(a), Code section 4975(c)(2), and/or 5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3), which applies only to the specific parties in interest and exemption transactions named or otherwise defined in the exemption.
(f) A
party in interest
means a person described in ERISA section 3(14) or 5 U.S.C. 8477(a)(4) and includes a disqualified person, as defined in Code section 4975(e)(2).
(g)
Pooled fund
means an account or fund for the collective investment of the assets of two or more unrelated plans, including (but not limited to) a pooled separate account maintained by an insurance company and a common or collective trust fund maintained by a bank or similar financial institution.
(h) A
qualified appraisal report
is any appraisal report that:
(1) Is prepared by a qualified independent appraiser; and
(2) Satisfies all the requirements set forth in § 2570.34(c)(5).
(i) A
qualified independent appraiser
is any individual or entity with appropriate training, experience, and facilities to provide a qualified appraisal report regarding the particular asset or property appraised in the report, that is independent of and unrelated to any party in interest engaging in the exemption transaction (and their affiliates). In general, the Department determines an appraiser's independence based on all relevant facts and circumstances, such as the extent to which the plan's counterparty in the transaction participated in or influenced the selection of the appraiser. In making the independence determination, the Department will consider the amount of the appraiser's revenues and projected revenues for the current Federal income tax year (including amounts received for preparing the appraisal report) that will be derived from parties in interest (and their affiliates) relative to the appraiser's revenues from all sources for the appraiser's prior Federal income tax year. The Department generally will not conclude that an appraiser's independence is compromised solely based on the revenues it receives from the parties in interest (and their affiliates) that engaged in the exemption transaction, to the extent that the appraiser neither receives nor is projected to receive more than two (2) percent of its revenues within the current Federal income tax year from the parties in interest (and their affiliates). Although larger percentages merit more stringent scrutiny, an appraiser may be considered independent based upon other facts and circumstances provided that the appraiser neither receives nor is projected to receive more than five (5) percent of its revenues within the current Federal income tax year from parties in interest (and their affiliates) participating in the exemption transaction.
(j) A
qualified independent fiduciary
is any individual or entity with appropriate training, experience, and facilities to act on behalf of the plan regarding the exemption transaction in accordance with the fiduciary duties and responsibilities prescribed by ERISA, that is independent of and unrelated to any party in interest engaging in the exemption transaction (and its affiliates). In general, the Department will make the determination of whether a fiduciary is independent based on all relevant facts and circumstances, such as the extent to which the plan's counterparty in the transaction participated in or influenced the selection of the fiduciary. In making this determination, the Department will also take into account, among other things, the amount of both the fiduciary's revenues and projected revenues for the current Federal income tax year (including amounts received for preparing fiduciary reports) that will be derived from parties in interest engaging in the exemption transaction (and their affiliates) relative to the fiduciary's revenues from all sources for the prior Federal income tax year. The Department generally will not conclude that a fiduciary's independence is compromised solely based on the revenues it receives from parties in interest (and their affiliates) that engaged in the exemption
transaction, to the extent that the fiduciary neither receives nor is projected to receive more than two (2) percent of its revenues within the current Federal income tax year from the parties in interest (and their affiliates). Although larger percentages merit more stringent scrutiny, a fiduciary may be considered independent based upon other facts and circumstances provided that the fiduciary neither receives nor is projected to receive more than five (5) percent of its revenues within the current Federal income tax year from the parties in interest (and their affiliates) that engaged in the exemption transaction.
(k) A
pre-submission applicant
is a party that contacts the Department, either orally or in writing, to inquire whether a party with a particular fact pattern would need to submit an exemption application and, if so, what conditions and relief would be applicable. A party that contacts the Department to inquire broadly, without reference to a specific fact pattern, about prohibited transaction exemptions is not a pre-submission applicant.
§ 2570.32
Persons who may apply for exemptions and the administrative record.
(a) The following persons may apply for exemptions:
(1) Any party in interest to a plan who is or may be a party to the exemption transaction;
(2) Any plan which is a party to the exemption transaction; or
(3) In the case of an application for an exemption covering a class of parties in interest or a class of transactions, in addition to any person described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, an association or organization representing parties in interest who may be parties to the exemption transaction.
(b) An application by or for a person described in paragraph (a) of this section may be submitted by the applicant or by an authorized representative. An application submitted by an authorized representative of the applicant must include proof of authority in the form of:
(1) A power of attorney; or
(2) A written certification from the applicant that the representative is authorized to file the application.
(c) If the authorized representative of an applicant submits an exemption application to the Department together with proof of authority to file the application as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the Department will direct all correspondence and inquiries concerning the application to the representative unless requested to do otherwise by the applicant.
(d)(1) The administrative record is open for public inspection, pursuant to § 2570.51(a), from the date an applicant submits an application to the Office of Exemption Determinations.
(2) The administrative record includes, but is not limited to, the initial exemption application and any modifications or supplements thereto; all correspondence with the applicant after the applicant submits the exemption application; and any information provided by the applicant in connection with the exemption application, whether provided orally or in writing (as well as any comments and testimony received by the Department in connection with an application).
(3) Although the administrative record is open and available to the public only after an applicant submits an exemption application, the record includes any material documents or supporting information that was submitted to the Department in connection with the subject transaction of the application, whether orally or in writing, before formal submission of the application. The administrative record does not include records of communications with the Department which were either not with respect to the subject transaction of the application or not followed by the submission of an exemption application related to those communications.
(4) If documents are required to be provided in writing, by either the applicant or the Department, the documents may be provided either by mail or electronically, unless otherwise indicated by the Department at its sole discretion.
§ 2570.33
Applications the Department will not ordinarily consider.
(a) The Department ordinarily will not consider an application that fails to include all the information required by §§ 2570.34 and 2570.35 (or fails to include current information) or otherwise fails to conform to the requirements in this subpart.
(b) An application for an individual exemption relating to a specific exemption transaction or transactions ordinarily will not be considered if the Department has under consideration a class exemption relating to the same type of transaction or transactions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Department may consider such an application if the issuance of the final class exemption is not imminent, and the Department determines that time constraints necessitate consideration of the exemption transaction on an individual basis.
(c) If a party, excluding a Federal, state, or other governmental entity, designates any information submitted in connection with its exemption application as confidential, the Department will not process the application unless and until the applicant withdraws its claim of confidentiality. By submitting an exemption application, an applicant consents to public disclosure of the entire administrative record pursuant to § 2570.51.
(d) The Department will not engage a pre-submission applicant or its representative, whether through written correspondence or a conference, if the pre-submission applicant does not:
(1) Identify and fully describe the exemption transaction; and
(2) Set forth the prohibited transactions that the applicant believes are applicable.
§ 2570.34
Information to be included in every exemption application.
(a) All applications for exemptions must contain the following information:
(1) The name(s), address(es), phone number(s), and email address(es) of the applicant(s);
(2) A detailed description of the exemption transaction, including the identification of all the parties in interest involved, a description of any larger integrated transaction of which the exemption transaction is a part, and a chronology of the events leading up to the exemption transaction;
(3) The identity, address, phone number, and email address of any representatives for the affected plan(s) and parties in interest and what individuals or entities they represent;
(4) A description of:
(i) The reason(s) for engaging in the exemption transaction;
(ii) Any material benefit that may be received by a party in interest (or its affiliates) as a result of the exemption transaction (including the avoidance of any materially adverse outcome by a party in interest (or its affiliates) as a result of engaging in the exemption transaction); and
(iii) The costs and benefits of the exemption transaction to the affected plan(s), participants, and beneficiaries, including quantification of those costs and benefits to the extent possible;
(5) A description of the alternatives to the exemption transaction that did not involve a prohibited transaction that were considered or evaluated by the applicant before submitting its exemption application and the reason(s) why those alternatives were not pursued;
(6) The prohibited transaction provisions from which exemptive relief is requested and the reason(s) why the exemption transaction would violate each such provision;
(7) A description of each conflict of interest or potential instance of self-dealing that would be permitted if the exemption is granted;
(8) Whether the exemption transaction is or has been the subject of an investigation or enforcement action by the Department, the Internal Revenue Service, or any other regulatory authority; and
(9) The hardship or economic loss, if any, which would result to the person or persons on behalf of whom the exemption is sought, to affected plans, and to their participants and beneficiaries from denial of the exemption.
(10) With respect to the exemption transaction's definition of affiliate, if applicable, either a statement that the definition of affiliate set forth in § 2570.31(a) is applicable or a statement
setting forth why a different affiliate definition should be applied.
(b) All applications for exemption must also contain the following:
(1) A statement explaining why the requested exemption would meet the requirements of ERISA section 408(a) by being—
(i) Administratively feasible for the Department;
(ii) In the interests of affected plans and their participants and beneficiaries; and
(iii) Protective of the rights of participants and beneficiaries of affected plans.
(2) A statement that either:
(i)(A) The exemption transaction will be in the best interest of the plan and its participants and beneficiaries;
(B) That all compensation received, directly or indirectly, by a party in interest (and its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction does not exceed reasonable compensation within the meaning of ERISA section 408(b)(2) and Code section 4975(d)(2); and
(C) That all statements to the Department, the plan, or, if applicable, the qualified independent fiduciary or qualified independent appraiser about the exemption transaction and other relevant matters are not materially misleading at the time the statements are made; or
(ii) Explains why the exemption standards in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section are not applicable to the exemption transaction.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), an exemption transaction is in the best interest of a plan if the plan fiduciary causing the plan to enter into the exemption transaction determines, with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing, that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would, in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims, enter into the exemption transaction based on the circumstances and needs of the plan. Such fiduciary shall not place the financial or other interests of itself, a party in interest, or any affiliate ahead of the interests of the plan or subordinate the plan's interests to itself, or any other party or affiliate.
(3) With respect to the notification of interested persons required by § 2570.43:
(i) A description of the interested persons to whom the applicant intends to provide notice;
(ii) The manner in which the applicant will provide such notice; and
(iii) An estimate of the time the applicant will need to furnish notice to all interested persons following publication of a notice of the proposed exemption in the
Federal Register
.
(4) If any party to the exemption transaction has requested either an advisory opinion from the Department or any similar opinion or guidance from another Federal, state, or regulatory body with respect to any issue relating to the exemption transaction—
(i) A copy of the opinion, letter, or similar document concluding the Department's or other entity's action on the request; or
(ii) If the Department or other entity has not yet concluded its action on the request:
(A) A copy of the request or the date on which it was submitted and, solely with respect to an advisory opinion request to the Department, the Department's correspondence control number as indicated in the acknowledgment letter; and
(B) An explanation of the effect the issuance of an advisory opinion by the Department or similar opinion or guidance from another Federal, state, or regulatory body would have upon the exemption transaction.
(5) If the application is to be signed by anyone other than the party in interest seeking exemptive relief on their own behalf, a statement which—
(i) Identifies the individual signing the application and their position or title; and
(ii) Briefly explains the basis of their familiarity with the matters discussed in the application.
(6)(i) A declaration in the following form:
I certify that I am familiar with the matters discussed in this application and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the representations made in this application are true and correct.
(ii) This certification must be dated and signed by:
(A) The applicant, in its individual capacity, in the case of an individual party in interest seeking exemptive relief on their own behalf;
(B) A corporate officer or partner if the applicant is a corporation or partnership;
(C) A designated officer or official if the applicant is an association, organization, or other unincorporated enterprise; or
(D) The plan fiduciary that has the authority, responsibility, and control with respect to the exemption transaction if the applicant is a plan.
(7) If an applicant communicated with the Department either orally or in writing before submitting an exemption application for the exemption transaction, a statement setting forth the date(s) and with whom the applicant communicated before submitting the application.
(c) Statements and documents from a qualified independent appraiser, auditor, or accountant, such as appraisal reports, analyses of market conditions, audits, or financial documents submitted to support an application for exemption must be accompanied by a statement of consent from such appraiser, auditor, or accountant acknowledging that the statement is being submitted to the Department as part of an exemption application. The statements by the qualified independent appraiser, auditor, or accountant must also contain the following written information:
(1) A signed and dated certification stating that, to the best of the qualified independent appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's knowledge and belief, the representations made in such statement are true and correct;
(2) A copy of the qualified independent appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's engagement letter and, if applicable, contract with the plan describing the specific duties the appraiser, auditor, or accountant shall undertake. The letter or contract may not:
(i) Include any provision that provides for the direct or indirect indemnification or reimbursement of the independent appraiser, auditor, or accountant by the plan or another party for any failure to adhere to its contractual obligations or to Federal and state laws applicable to the appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's work. However, the letter or contract may include a provision providing for reimbursement of legal expenses with respect to claims for any failure to adhere to the appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's contractual obligations or to Federal and state laws applicable to the appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's work, provided that:
(A) The plan determines that the reimbursement is prudent following a good faith determination that the appraiser, auditor, or accountant likely did not fail to adhere to the independent fiduciary's contractual obligations or to Federal and state laws applicable to the appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's work and will be able to repay the plan; and
(B) The letter or contract requires the appraiser, auditor, or accountant to repay all of the reimbursements, in a timely fashion, in the event the appraiser, auditor, or accountant enters into a settlement agreement regarding any asserted failure to adhere to its contractual obligations, or to state or Federal laws, or has been found liable for breach of contract or violation of any Federal or state laws applicable to the appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's work; or
(ii) Waive any rights, claims, or remedies of the plan or its participants and beneficiaries under ERISA, the Code, or other Federal and state laws against the independent appraiser, auditor, or accountant with respect to the exemption transaction;
(3) A summary of the qualified independent appraiser's, auditor's, or accountant's qualifications to serve in such capacity;
(4) A detailed description of any relationship that the qualified independent appraiser, auditor, or accountant has had or may have with the plan or any party in interest involved in the exemption transaction or its affiliates that may influence the appraiser, auditor, or accountant, including a description of any past engagements with the appraiser, auditor, or accountant;
(5) A written appraisal report prepared by the qualified independent appraiser, which determines, to the best
of the qualified independent appraiser's ability and in accordance with professional appraisal standards, the fair market value of the subject asset(s), without bias towards the plan's counterparty in the transaction or other interested parties:
(i) The report must describe the method(s) used in determining the fair market value of the subject asset(s) and an explanation of why such method best reflects the fair market value of the asset(s);
(ii) The report must consider any special benefit that a party in interest involved in the exemption transaction may derive from control of the asset(s), such as from owning an adjacent parcel of real property or gaining voting control over a company; and
(iii) The report must be current and not more than one year old from the date of the exemption transaction, and a written update must be prepared by the qualified independent appraiser affirming the accuracy of the appraisal as of the date of the exemption transaction;
(6) If the subject of the appraisal report is real property, the qualified independent appraiser shall submit a written representation that they are a member of a professional organization of appraisers that can sanction its members for misconduct;
(7) If the subject of the appraisal report is an asset other than real property, the qualified independent appraiser shall submit a written representation describing the appraiser's prior experience in valuing assets of the same type; and
(8) The qualified independent appraiser shall submit a written representation disclosing the percentage of its current revenue that is derived from any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction; in general, such percentage shall be computed with respect to the two separate disclosures by comparing, in fractional form:
(i) The amount of the appraiser's projected revenues from the current Federal income tax year (including amounts received from preparing the appraisal report) that will be derived from any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction (expressed as a numerator); and
(ii) The appraiser's revenues from all sources for the prior Federal income tax year (expressed as a denominator).
(d) For those exemption transactions requiring the retention of a qualified independent appraiser, the applicant must include:
(1) A representation that the independent fiduciary prudently selected the appraiser after diligent review of the appraiser's technical training and proficiency with respect to the type of valuation at issue, the appraiser's independence from the plan's counterparties in the exemption transaction, and the absence of any material conflicts of interest with respect to the exemption transaction;
(2) A representation that the appraiser is independent within the meaning of § 2571.31(i); and
(3) A representation that the independent appraiser has appropriate technical training and proficiency with respect to the specific details of the exemption transaction.
(e) For those exemption transactions requiring the retention of a qualified independent fiduciary to represent the interests of the plan, the applicant must include:
(1) A representation that an appropriate fiduciary, without material conflicts of interest, prudently selected the independent fiduciary after diligent review of the independent fiduciary's technical training and proficiency with respect to ERISA, the Code, and the specific details of the exemption transaction, as well as the sufficiency of the independent fiduciary's fiduciary liability insurance;
(2) A representation that the fiduciary retained to act as the independent fiduciary is independent within the meaning of § 2570.31(j);
(3) A representation that the independent fiduciary has appropriate technical training and proficiency with respect to:
(i) ERISA and the Code; and
(ii) The specific details of the exemption transaction.
(f) For exemption transactions requiring the retention of a qualified independent fiduciary to represent the interests of the plan, a statement must
be submitted by such independent fiduciary that contains the following written information:
(1) A signed and dated certification that, to the best of the qualified independent fiduciary's knowledge and belief, all the representations made in such statement are true and correct;
(2) A copy of the qualified independent fiduciary's engagement letter and, if applicable, contract with the plan describing the fiduciary's specific duties. The letter or contract may not:
(i) Contain any provisions that violate ERISA section 410;
(ii) Include any provision that provides for the direct or indirect indemnification or reimbursement of the independent fiduciary by the plan or other party for any failure to adhere to its contractual obligations or to state or Federal laws applicable to the independent fiduciary's work, except that the letter or contract may include a provision providing for reimbursement of legal expenses with respect to claims for any failure to adhere to the independent fiduciary's contractual obligations or to Federal and state laws applicable to the independent fiduciary's work, provided that:
(A) The plan determines that the provision is prudent following a good faith determination that the independent fiduciary likely did not fail to adhere to the independent fiduciary's contractual obligations or to Federal and state laws applicable to the independent fiduciary's work and will be able to repay the plan; and
(B) The letter or contract requires the independent fiduciary to repay all of the reimbursements, in a timely fashion, if the independent fiduciary enters into a settlement agreement regarding any asserted failure to adhere to its contractual obligations, or to state or Federal law, or has been found liable for breach of contract or violation of any Federal or state laws applicable to the independent fiduciary's work; or
(iii) Waive any rights, claims, or remedies of the plan under ERISA, state, or Federal law against the independent fiduciary with respect to the exemption transaction;
(3)(i) A description of any fiduciary liability insurance policy maintained by the independent fiduciary that includes:
(A) The amount of coverage available to indemnify the plan for damages resulting from a breach by the independent fiduciary of either ERISA, the Code, or any other Federal or state law or its contract or engagement letter; and
(B) Whether the insurance policy contains an exclusion for actions brought by the Secretary or any other Federal, state, or regulatory body; the plan; or plan participants or beneficiaries;
(4) An explanation of the bases for the conclusion that the fiduciary is a qualified independent fiduciary, which also must include a summary of that person's or entity's qualifications to serve in such capacity and a description of any prior experience by that person or entity or other demonstrated characteristics of the fiduciary (such as special areas of expertise) that render that person or entity suitable to perform its duties as a qualified independent fiduciary on behalf of the plan with respect to the exemption transaction;
(5) A detailed description of any relationship that the qualified independent fiduciary has had or may have with the plan and any party in interest involved in the exemption transaction (or its affiliates);
(6) An acknowledgement by the qualified independent fiduciary that it understands its duties and responsibilities under ERISA; is acting as a fiduciary of the plan with respect to the exemption transaction; has no material conflicts of interest with respect to the exemption transaction; and is not acting as an agent or representative of the plan sponsor;
(7) The qualified independent fiduciary's opinion on whether the exemption transaction would be in the interests of the plan and its participants and beneficiaries, protective of the rights of participants and beneficiaries of the plan, and in compliance with the standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, if applicable, along with a statement of the reasons on which the opinion is based;
(8) If the exemption transaction is continuing in nature, a declaration by the qualified independent fiduciary that it is authorized to take all appropriate actions to safeguard the interests of the plan, and will, during the pendency of the exemption transaction:
(i) Monitor the exemption transaction on behalf of the plan and its participants and beneficiaries on a continuing basis;
(ii) Ensure that the exemption transaction remains in the interests of the plan and its participants and beneficiaries and, if not, take any appropriate actions available under the particular circumstances; and
(iii) Enforce compliance with all conditions and obligations imposed on any party dealing with the plan with respect to the exemption transaction;
(9) The qualified independent fiduciary shall submit a written representation disclosing the percentage of its current revenue that is derived from any party in interest involved in the exemption transaction (or its affiliates) with respect to both the prior Federal income tax year and current Federal income tax year; in general, such percentage shall be computed with respect to the two disclosures by comparing in fractional form:
(i) The amount of the independent fiduciary's projected revenues from the current Federal income tax year that will be derived from parties in interest involved in the exemption transaction and their affiliates (expressed as a numerator); and
(ii) The independent fiduciary's revenues from all sources (excluding fixed, non-discretionary retirement income) for the prior Federal income tax year (expressed as a denominator);
(10) A statement that the independent fiduciary has no conflicts of interest with respect to the exemption transaction that could affect the exercise of its best judgment as a fiduciary;
(11) Either:
(i) A statement that, within the last five years, the independent fiduciary has not been under investigation or examination by, and has not engaged in litigation, or a continuing controversy with the Department, the Internal Revenue Service, the Justice Department, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, or any other Federal or state entity involving:
(A) Compliance with provisions of ERISA or FERSA;
(B) Its representation of or position or employment with any employee benefit plan, including investigations or controversies involving ERISA or the Code, or any other Federal or state law;
(C) Conduct of the business of a broker, dealer, investment adviser, bank, insurance company, or fiduciary;
(D) Income tax evasion; or
(E) Any felony or conspiracy involving the larceny, theft, robbery, extortion, forgery, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds or securities; or
(ii) A statement describing the applicable investigation, examination, litigation, or controversy; and
(12)(i)(A) Either a statement that, within the last 13 years, the independent fiduciary has not been:
(
1
) Convicted or released from imprisonment, whichever is later, as a result of any felony involving abuse or misuse of such person's position or employment with an employee benefit plan or a labor organization; any felony arising out of the conduct of the business of a broker, dealer, investment adviser, bank, insurance company, or fiduciary; income tax evasion; any felony involving the larceny, theft, robbery, extortion, forgery, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds or securities; conspiracy or attempt to commit any such crimes or a crime of which any of the foregoing crimes is an element; or any crime identified in ERISA section 411, regardless of whether the conviction occurred in a U.S. or foreign jurisdiction; or
(
2
) Convicted by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction or released from imprisonment, whichever is later, as a result of any crime that is substantially equivalent to an offense described in paragraph (f)(12)(i)(A)(
1
) of this section; or
(B) A statement describing a conviction or release from imprisonment described in paragraph (f)(12)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (f), a person shall be deemed to have been “convicted” from the date of the judgment of the trial court (or the date of the judgment of any court in a foreign jurisdiction that is the equivalent of a U.S. Federal or state trial court), regardless of whether that judgment remains under appeal, and regardless of whether the foreign jurisdiction considers a trial court judgment final while under appeal.
(g) Statements, as applicable, from other third-party experts, including but not limited to economists or market specialists, submitted on behalf of the plan to support an exemption application must be accompanied by a statement of consent from such expert acknowledging that the statement prepared on behalf of the plan is being submitted to the Department as part of an exemption application. Such statements must also contain the following written information:
(1) A copy of the expert's engagement letter and, if applicable, contract with the plan describing the specific duties the expert will undertake;
(2) A summary of the expert's qualifications to serve in such capacity; and
(3) A detailed description of any relationship that the expert has had or may have with any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction that may influence the actions of the expert.
(h) An application for exemption may also include a draft of the requested exemption which describes the exemption transaction and parties in interest for which exemptive relief is sought and the specific conditions under which the exemption would apply.
§ 2570.35
Information to be included in applications for individual exemptions only.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, every application for an individual exemption must include, in addition to the information specified in § 2570.34, the following information:
(1) The name, address, email address, telephone number, and type of plan or plans to which the requested exemption applies;
(2) The Employer Identification Number (EIN) and the plan number (PN) used by such plan or plans in all reporting and disclosure required by the Department (individuals should not submit Social Security numbers);
(3) Whether any plan or trust affected by the requested exemption is currently under investigation for violation of, or has ever been found by the Department, the Internal Revenue Service, or by a court to have violated, the exclusive benefit rule of Code section 401(a), Code section 4975(c)(1), ERISA sections 406 or 407(a), or 5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3), including a description of the circumstances surrounding such violation;
(4) Whether any relief under ERISA section 408(a), Code section 4975(c)(2), or 5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3) has been requested by, or provided to, the applicant or any parties in interest (or their affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction and, if so, the exemption application number or the prohibited transaction exemption number;
(5) Whether the applicant or any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction is currently, or has been within the last five years, a defendant in any lawsuits or criminal actions concerning its conduct as a fiduciary or party in interest with respect to any plan (other than lawsuits with respect to a routine claim for benefits), and a description of the circumstances of the lawsuits or criminal actions;
(6)(i) Whether the applicant (including any person described in § 2570.34(b)(6)(ii)) or any of the parties in interest involved in the exemption transaction has, within the last 13 years, been:
(A) Convicted or released from imprisonment, whichever is later, as a result of any felony involving abuse or misuse of such person's position or employment with an employee benefit plan or a labor organization; any felony arising out of the conduct of the business of a broker, dealer, investment adviser, bank, insurance company, or fiduciary; income tax evasion; any felony involving the larceny, theft,
robbery, extortion, forgery, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds or securities; conspiracy or attempt to commit any such crimes or a crime of which any of the foregoing crimes is an element; or any crime identified in ERISA section 411, regardless of whether the conviction occurred in a U.S. or foreign jurisdiction; or
(B) Convicted by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction or released from imprisonment, whichever is later, as a result of any crime, however denominated by the laws of the relevant foreign government, that is substantially equivalent to an offense described in paragraph (a)(6)(i)(A) of this section and a description of the circumstances of any such conviction in paragraph (a)(6)(i)(A) or this paragraph (a)(6)(i)(B); and
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a), a person shall be deemed to have been “convicted” from the date of the judgment of the trial court (or the date of the judgment of any court in a foreign jurisdiction that is the equivalent of a U.S. Federal or state trial court), regardless of whether that judgment remains under appeal and regardless of whether the foreign jurisdiction considers a trial court judgment final while under appeal;
(7) Whether, within the last five years, any plan affected by the exemption transaction, the applicant, or any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction, has been under investigation or examination by, or has been engaged in litigation or a continuing controversy with, the Department, the Internal Revenue Service, the Justice Department, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, or any other regulatory body involving compliance with provisions of ERISA, FERSA, the Code, or any other Federal or state law involving:
(i) Compliance with provisions of ERISA or FERSA;
(ii) Representation of or position or employment with any employee benefit plan, including investigations or controversies involving ERISA or the Code, or any other Federal or state law;
(iii) Conduct of the business of a broker, dealer, investment adviser, bank, insurance company, or fiduciary;
(iv) Income tax evasion; or
(v) Any felony or conspiracy involving the larceny, theft, robbery, extortion, forgery, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds or securities. If so, the applicant must provide a brief statement describing the investigation, examination, litigation, or controversy. The Department reserves the right to require the production of additional information or documentation concerning any of the matters in this paragraph (a)(7). In this regard, a denial of the exemption application may result from an applicant's failure to provide additional information requested by the Department;
(8) Whether any plan affected by the requested exemption has experienced a reportable event under ERISA section 4043, and, if so, a description of the circumstances of any such reportable event;
(9) Whether a notice of intent to terminate has been filed under ERISA section 4041 with respect to any plan affected by the requested exemption, and, if so, a description of the circumstances for the issuance of the notice;
(10) Names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses of all parties in interest (or their affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction;
(11) The estimated number of participants and beneficiaries in each plan affected by the requested exemption as of the date of the application;
(12) The percentage of the fair market value of the total assets of each affected plan that is involved in the exemption transaction. If the exemption transaction includes the acquisition of an asset by the plan, the fair market value of the asset to be acquired must be included in both the numerator and denominator of the fraction;
(13) Whether the exemption transaction has been consummated or will be consummated only if the exemption is granted;
(14) If the exemption transaction has already been consummated:
(i) The circumstances which resulted in plan fiduciaries causing the plan(s) to engage in the exemption transaction before obtaining an exemption from the Department;
(ii) Whether the exemption transaction has been terminated;
(iii) Whether the exemption transaction has been corrected as defined in Code section 4975(f)(5);
(iv) Whether Form 5330, Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit Plans, has been filed with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the exemption transaction; and
(v) Whether any excise taxes due under Code section 4975(a) and (b), or any civil penalties due under ERISA section 502(i) or (l) by reason of the exemption transaction have been paid. If so, the applicant should submit documentation (
e.g.,
a canceled check) demonstrating that the excise taxes or civil penalties were paid;
(15) The name of every person who has authority or investment discretion over any plan assets involved in the exemption transaction and the relationship of each such person to the parties in interest involved in the exemption transaction and the affiliates of such parties in interest;
(16) Whether the assets of the affected plan(s) are invested, directly or indirectly, in:
(i) loans to any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction;
(ii) Property leased to any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction; or
(iii) Securities issued by any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction, and, if such investments exist, a statement for each of these three types of investments which indicates:
(A) The type of investment to which the statement pertains;
(B) The aggregate fair market value of all investments of this type as reflected in the plan's most recent annual report;
(C) The approximate percentage of the fair market value of the plan's total assets as shown in such annual report that is represented by all investments of this type; and
(D) The statutory or administrative exemption covering these investments, if any;
(17) The approximate aggregate fair market value of the total assets of each affected plan;
(18) The person(s) or entity who will bear the costs of:
(i) The exemption application;
(ii) Any commissions, fees, or costs associated with the exemption transaction, and any related transaction; and
(iii) Notifying interested persons;
(19) Whether an independent fiduciary is or will be involved in the exemption transaction and, if so, the names of the persons who will bear the cost of the fee payable to such fiduciary; and
(20) Any prior transaction between:
(i) The plan or plan sponsor; and
(ii) Any party in interest (or its affiliates) involved in the exemption transaction.
(b) Each application for an individual exemption must also include:
(1) True copies of all contracts, deeds, agreements, and instruments, as well as relevant portions of plan documents, trust agreements, and any other documents bearing on the exemption transaction;
(2) A discussion of the facts relevant to the exemption transaction that are reflected in the documents listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and an analysis of their bearing on the requested exemption;
(3) A copy of the most recent financial statements of each plan affected by the requested exemption; and
(4) A net worth statement with respect to any party that is providing a personal guarantee with respect to the exemption transaction.
(c) Special rules for applications for individual exemption involving pooled funds are as follows:
(1) The information required by paragraphs (a)(8) through (12) of this section is not required to be furnished in an application for individual exemption involving one or more pooled funds.
(2) The information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) and (13)
through (19) of this section and by paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section must be furnished in reference to the pooled fund, rather than to the plans participating therein. (For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), the information required by paragraph (a)(16) of this section relates solely to other pooled fund transactions with, and investments in, parties in interest involved in the exemption transaction which are also sponsors of plans which invest in the pooled fund.)
(3) The following information must also be furnished—
(i) The estimated number of plans that are participating (or will participate) in the pooled fund; and
(ii) The minimum and maximum limits imposed by the pooled fund (if any) on the portion of the total assets of each plan that may be invested in the pooled fund.
(4) Additional requirements for applications for individual exemptions involving pooled funds in which certain plans participate are as follows:
(i) This paragraph (c)(4) applies to any application for an individual exemption involving one or more pooled funds in which any plan participating therein—
(A) Invests an amount which exceeds 20 percent of the total assets of the pooled fund; or
(B) Covers employees of:
(
1
) The party sponsoring or maintaining the pooled fund, or any affiliate of such party; or
(
2
) Any fiduciary with investment discretion over the pooled fund's assets, or any affiliate of such fiduciary.
(ii) The exemption application must include, with respect to each plan described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (3), (5) through (7), (10), (12) through (16), (18), and (19) of this section. The information required by this paragraph (c)(4)(ii) must be furnished in reference to the plan's investment in the pooled fund (
e.g.,
the names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses of all fiduciaries responsible for the plan's investment in the pooled fund (paragraph (a)(10) of this section), the percentage of the assets of the plan invested in the pooled fund (paragraph (a)(12) of this section), whether the plan's investment in the pooled fund has been consummated or will be consummated only if the exemption is granted (paragraph (a)(13) of this section, etc.)).
(iii) The information required by this paragraph (c)(4) is in addition to the information required by paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section relating to information furnished by reference to the pooled fund.
(5) The special rule and the additional requirements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section do not apply to an individual exemption request solely for the investment by a plan in a pooled fund. Such an application must provide the information required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)(1) Generally, the Department will consider exemption requests for retroactive relief only when:
(i) The safeguards necessary for the grant of a prospective exemption were in place at the time the parties entered into the exemption transaction; and
(ii) The plan and its participants and beneficiaries have not been harmed by the exemption transaction. An applicant for a retroactive exemption must demonstrate that the responsible plan fiduciaries acted in good faith by taking all appropriate steps necessary to protect the plan from abuse, loss, and risk at the time of the exemption transaction. An applicant should further explain and describe whether the exemption transaction could have been performed without engaging in a prohibited exemption transaction, and whether the goals of the transaction could have been achieved through an alternative transaction that served the aims of the plan equally well.
(2) Among the factors that the Department will consider in making a finding that an applicant acted in good faith include the following:
(i) The involvement of an independent fiduciary before an exemption transaction occurs who acts on behalf of the plan and is qualified to negotiate, approve, and monitor the exemption transaction; provided, however, the Department may consider, at its sole discretion, an independent fiduciary's appointment and retrospective
review after completion of the exemption transaction due to exigent circumstances;
(ii) The existence of a contemporaneous appraisal by a qualified independent appraiser or reference to an objective third party source, such as a stock or bond index;
(iii) The existence of a bidding process or evidence of comparable fair market transactions with unrelated third parties;
(iv) That the applicant has submitted an accurate and complete exemption application that contains documentation of all necessary and relevant facts and representations upon which the applicant relied. In this regard, the Department will accord appropriate weight to facts and representations which are prepared and certified by a source independent of the applicant;
(v) That the applicant has submitted evidence that the plan fiduciary did not engage in an act or transaction with respect to which the fiduciary should have known, consistent with its ERISA fiduciary duties and responsibilities, was prohibited under ERISA section 406 and/or Code section 4975. In this regard, the Department will accord appropriate weight to the submission of a contemporaneous, reasoned legal opinion of counsel, upon which the plan fiduciary relied in good faith before engaging in the act or transaction;
(vi) That the applicant has submitted a statement of the circumstances which prompted the submission of the application for exemption and the steps taken by the applicant about the exemption transaction upon discovery of the violation;
(vii) That the applicant has submitted a statement, prepared and certified by an independent person familiar with the types of transactions for which relief is requested, demonstrating that the terms and conditions of the exemption transaction (including, in the case of an investment, the return in fact realized by the plan) were at least as favorable to the plan as that obtainable in a similar transaction with an unrelated party; and
(viii) Such other undertakings and assurances with respect to the plan and its participants that may be offered by the applicant which are relevant to the criteria under ERISA section 408(a) and Code section 4975(c)(2).
(3) The Department, as a general matter, will not consider requests for retroactive exemptions if transactions or conduct with respect to which an exemption is requested resulted in a loss to the plan, as determined pursuant to the facts existing at the time of the exemption application. In addition, the Department will not consider requests for exemptions if the transactions are inconsistent with the general fiduciary responsibility provisions of ERISA sections 403 or 404 or the exclusive benefit requirements of Code section 401(a).
§ 2570.36
Where to file an application.
The Department's prohibited transaction exemption program is administered by the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA). Any exemption application governed by this subpart may be emailed to the Department at
e-OED@dol.gov.
The applicant is not required to submit a paper copy if an electronic copy is submitted. An applicant may submit a paper copy of the application by mailing it via first-class mail to: Employee Benefits Security Administration, Office of Exemption Determinations, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Suite 400 Washington, DC 20210 or via private carrier service to Employee Benefit Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Exemption Determinations, 122 C Street NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-2109. The mail or private carrier service addresses, however, are subject to change, and the applicant should confirm the address with the Office of Exemption Determinations before submitting a paper copy of an application.
§ 2570.37
Duty to amend and supplement exemption applications.
(a) During the Department's consideration of an exemption application and following any grant by the Department of an exemption request, an applicant must promptly notify the Department in writing if they discover that any material fact or representation contained in the application or in any documents or testimony provided
in support of the application was inaccurate at the time it was provided to the Department in support of the application. If any material fact or representation changes during this period, or if anything occurs that may affect the continuing accuracy of any such fact or representation, the applicant must promptly notify the Department in writing of the change. In addition, an applicant must promptly notify the Department in writing if it learns that a material fact or representation has been omitted from the exemption application.
(b) If, at any time during the pendency of an exemption application, the applicant or any other party in interest who would participate in the exemption transaction becomes the subject of an investigation or enforcement action by the Department, the Internal Revenue Service, the Justice Department, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, or any other Federal or state governmental entity involving:
(1) Compliance with provisions of ERISA or FERSA;
(2) Representation of or position or employment with any employee benefit plan, including investigations or controversies involving ERISA or the Code, or any other Federal or state law;
(3) Conduct of the business of a broker, dealer, investment adviser, bank, insurance company, or fiduciary;
(4) Income tax evasion; or
(5) Any felony or conspiracy involving the larceny, theft, robbery, extortion, forgery, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds or securities, the applicant must promptly notify the Department.
(c) The Department may require an applicant to provide any documentation it considers necessary to verify any statements contained in the application or in supporting materials or documents.
§ 2570.38
Tentative denial letters.
(a) If, after reviewing an exemption file, the Department tentatively concludes that it will not propose or grant the exemption, it will notify the applicant in writing. At the same time the Department provides the notification, the Department will also provide a brief statement of the reasons for its tentative denial.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
As referenced in § 2570.33(a)(1), the Department will not hold a conference with, or issue a tentative denial letter to, an applicant who does not submit a complete application, or an applicant who does not provide current information.
(b) An applicant will have 20 days from the date of a tentative denial letter, unless the Department extends the time period at its sole discretion, to request a conference under § 2570.40 and/or to notify the Department of its intent to submit additional information under § 2570.39. If the Department does not receive a request for a conference or a notification of intent to submit additional information within that time, it will issue a final denial letter pursuant to § 2570.41.
§ 2570.39
Opportunities to submit additional information.
(a) An applicant may notify the Department of its intent to submit additional information supporting an exemption application by telephone, by letter sent to the address furnished in the applicant's tentative denial letter, or electronically to the email address provided in the applicant's tentative denial letter. At the same time, the applicant should indicate generally the type of information that will be submitted.
(b) The additional information an applicant intends to provide in support of the application must be in writing and received by the Department within 40 days from the date the Department issues the tentative denial letter unless the Department extends the time period at its sole discretion. All such information must be accompanied by a certification that all information provided to the Department is true and correct, and the certification must be dated and signed by a person qualified under § 2570.34(b)(6) to sign such a declaration. The information may be submitted either electronically or by mail to the address specified in the letter.
(c) If, for reasons beyond its control, an applicant is unable to submit all the additional information they intend to
provide in support of their application within the period described in paragraph (b) of this section, they may request an extension of time to furnish the information. Such requests must be made before the expiration of the time period described in paragraph (b), and the request will be granted, in the Department's sole discretion, only in unusual circumstances and for a limited period as determined by the Department. The request may be made by telephone, mail, or electronically.
(d) The Department will issue, without further notice, either by mail or electronically, a final denial letter denying the requested exemption pursuant to § 2570.41 if—
(1) The Department has not received the additional information that the applicant stated their intention to submit within the period described in paragraph (b) of this section, or within any additional period granted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) The applicant did not request a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b).
§ 2570.40
Conferences.
(a) Any conference between the Department and an applicant pertaining to a requested exemption will be held in Washington, DC, except that a telephone or electronic conference will be held at the applicant's request.
(b) An applicant is entitled to only one conference with respect to any exemption application. The Department may hold additional conferences at its sole discretion if it determines additional conference(s) are appropriate. An applicant will not be entitled to a conference, however, if the Department has held a hearing on the exemption under either § 2570.46 or § 2570.47.
(c) Insofar as possible, conferences will be scheduled as joint conferences with all applicants present if:
(1) More than one applicant has requested an exemption with respect to the same or similar types of transactions;
(2) The Department is considering the applications together as a request for a class exemption;
(3) The Department contemplates not granting the exemption; and
(4) More than one applicant has requested a conference.
(d) In instances where the applicant has requested a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b) and also has submitted additional information pursuant to § 2570.39, the Department will schedule a conference under this section for a date and time that occurs within 20 days after the date on which the Department has provided either oral or written notification to the applicant that, after reviewing the additional information, it still is not prepared to propose the requested exemption or a later date determined at the Department's sole discretion. If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant cannot attend a conference within the time limit described in this paragraph (d), the applicant may request an extension of time for the scheduling of a conference, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the time limit. The Department, at its sole discretion, will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period.
(e) In instances where the applicant has requested a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b) but has not expressed an intent to submit additional information in support of the exemption application as provided in § 2570.39, the Department will schedule a conference under this section for a date and time that occurs within 40 days after the date of the issuance of the tentative denial letter described in § 2570.38(a) or a later date determined at the sole discretion of the Department. If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant cannot attend a conference within the time limit described in this paragraph (e), the applicant may request an extension of time for the scheduling of a conference, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the time limit. The Department, at its sole discretion, will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period.
(f) In instances where the applicant has requested a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b), notified the Department of its intent to submit additional information pursuant to § 2570.39, and failed to furnish such information within 40 days after the date of issuance of the tentative denial letter, the Department will schedule a conference under this
section for a date and time that occurs within 60 days after the date of the issuance of the tentative denial letter described in § 2570.38(a) or a later date as determined at the sole discretion of the Department. If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant cannot attend a conference within the time limit described in this paragraph (f), the applicant may request an extension of time to schedule a conference, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the time limit. The Department, at its sole discretion, will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period.
(g) If the applicant fails to either timely schedule or appear for a conference agreed to by the Department pursuant to this section, the applicant will be deemed to have waived its right to a conference.
(h) Within 20 days after the date of any conference held under this section, or a later date determined at the sole discretion of the Department, the applicant may submit to the Department (electronically or in paper form) any additional written data, arguments, or legal authorities discussed at the conference but not previously or adequately presented in writing. If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant is unable to submit the additional information within this time limit, the applicant may request an extension of time to furnish the information, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the time limit described in this paragraph (h). The Department, at its sole discretion, will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period.
(i) The Department, at its sole discretion, may hold a conference with any party, including the qualified independent fiduciary or the qualified independent appraiser, regarding any matter related to an exemption request without the presence of the applicant or other parties involved in the exemption transaction, or their representatives. Any such conferences may occur in addition to the conference with the applicant described in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 2570.41
Final denial letters.
The Department will issue a final denial letter denying a requested exemption, either by mail or electronically, if:
(a) Before issuing a tentative denial letter under § 2570.38 or conducting a hearing on the exemption under either § 2570.46 or § 2570.47, the Department determines at its sole discretion that:
(1) The applicant has failed to submit information requested by the Department in a timely manner;
(2) The information provided by the applicant does not meet the requirements of §§ 2570.34 and 2570.35; or
(3) A conference was held between the Department and the applicant before the Department issued a tentative denial letter during which the Department and the applicant addressed the reasons for denial that otherwise would have been set forth in a tentative denial letter pursuant to § 2570.38;
(b) The conditions for issuing a final denial letter specified in § 2570.38(b) or § 2570.39(d) are satisfied;
(c) After issuing a tentative denial letter under § 2570.38 and considering the entire record in the case, including all written information submitted pursuant to §§ 2570.39 and 2570.40, the Department decides not to propose an exemption or to withdraw an exemption it already proposed;
(d) After proposing an exemption and conducting a hearing on the exemption under either § 2570.46 or § 2570.47 and after considering the entire record in the case, including the record of the hearing and any public comments, the Department decides to withdraw the proposed exemption; or
(e) The applicant either:
(1) Requests for the Department to withdraw the exemption application; or
(2) Communicates to the Department that it is not interested in continuing the application process.
§ 2570.42
Notice of proposed exemption.
If the Department tentatively decides that an administrative exemption is warranted, it will publish a notice of a proposed exemption in the
Federal Register.
In addition to providing notice of the pendency of the exemption before the Department, the notice will:
(a) Explain the exemption transaction and summarize the information and reasons in support of proposing the exemption;
(b) Describe the scope of relief and any conditions of the proposed exemption;
(c) Inform interested persons of their right to submit comments to the Department (either electronically or in writing) relating to the proposed exemption and establish a deadline for receipt of such comments; and
(d) If the proposed exemption includes relief from the prohibitions of ERISA section 406(b), Code section 4975(c)(1)(E) or (F), or FERSA section 8477(c)(2), inform interested persons who are materially affected by the grant of the exemption of their right to request a hearing under § 2570.46 and establish a deadline for hearing requests to be submitted.
§ 2570.43
Notification of interested persons by applicant.
(a) If a notice of proposed exemption is published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 2570.42, the applicant must notify interested persons of the pendency of the exemption in the manner and within the time period specified in the application. If the Department determines that this notification would be inadequate, the applicant must obtain the Department's consent as to the manner and time period of providing the notice to interested persons. Any such notification must include:
(1) A copy of the notice of proposed exemption as published in the
Federal Register
; and
(2) A supplemental statement in the following form:
You are hereby notified that the United States Department of Labor is considering granting an exemption from the prohibited transaction restrictions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986. The exemption under consideration is summarized in the enclosed [Summary of Proposed Exemption and described in greater detail in the accompanying]
1
Notice of Proposed Exemption. As a person who may be affected by this exemption, you have the right to comment on the proposed exemption by [date].
2
[If you may be materially affected by the grant of the exemption, you also have the right to request a hearing on the exemption by [date].]
3
1
To be added in instances where the Department requires the applicant to furnish a Summary of Proposed Exemption to interested persons as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
2
The applicant will write in this space the date of the last day of the time period specified in the notice of proposed exemption.
3
To be added in the case of an exemption that provides relief from ERISA section 406(b) or corresponding sections of the Code or FERSA.
All comments and/or requests for a hearing should be addressed to the Office of Exemption Determinations, Employee Benefits Security Administration, Room N-5461,
4
U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20210, ATTENTION: Application No.__.
5
Comments and hearing requests may also be transmitted to the Department electronically at
e-OED@dol.gov
or at
https://www.regulations.gov
(follow instructions for submission), and should prominently reference the application number listed above. Individuals submitting comments or requests for a hearing on this matter are advised not to disclose sensitive personal data, such as social security numbers or information that they consider confidential or otherwise protected.
4
The applicant will fill in the room number of the Office of Exemptions Determinations. As of January 24, 2024, the room number of the Office of Exemption Determinations is N-5461.
5
The applicant will fill in the exemption application number, which is stated in the notice of proposed exemption, as well as in all correspondence from the Department to the applicant regarding the application.
The Department will make no final decision on the proposed exemption until it reviews the comments received in response to the enclosed notice. If the Department decides to hold a hearing on the exemption request before making its final decision, you will be notified of the time and place of the hearing.
(b) The method used by an applicant to furnish notice to interested persons must be reasonably calculated to ensure that interested persons actually receive the notice. In all cases, personal delivery and delivery by first-class mail will be considered reasonable methods of furnishing notice. If the applicant elects to furnish notice electronically, they must provide satisfactory proof that the entire class of
interested persons will be able to receive the notice.
(c) After furnishing the notification described in paragraph (a) of this section, an applicant must provide the Department with a written statement confirming that notice was furnished in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. This statement must be accompanied by a certification that the information provided in the statement and signed by a person qualified under § 2570.34(b)(6) to sign such a declaration is true and correct. No exemption will be granted until the applicant furnishes such a certification to the Department.
(d) In addition to the provision of notification required by paragraph (a) of this section, the Department, in its sole discretion, may also require an applicant to furnish interested persons with a brief summary of the proposed exemption (Summary of Proposed Exemption), written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average recipient, which objectively describes:
(1) The exemption transaction and the parties in interest thereto;
(2) Why the exemption transaction would violate the prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA, the Code, and/or FERSA from which relief is sought;
(3) The reasons why the plan seeks to engage in the exemption transaction; and
(4) The conditions and safeguards proposed to protect the plan and its participants and beneficiaries from potential abuse or unnecessary risk of loss in the event the Department grants the exemption.
(e) Applicants who are required to provide interested persons with the Summary of Proposed Exemption described in paragraph (d) of this section shall furnish the Department with a copy of such summary for review and approval before its distribution to interested persons. Such applicants shall also provide confirmation to the Department that the Summary of Proposed Exemption was furnished to interested persons as part of the written statement and declaration required of exemption applicants by paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 2570.44
Withdrawal of exemption applications.
(a) An applicant may withdraw an application for an exemption at any time by oral or written (including electronic) notice to the Department. A withdrawn application generally shall not prejudice any subsequent applications for the same exemption transaction submitted by an applicant.
(b) Upon receiving an applicant's notice of withdrawal regarding an application for an individual exemption, the Department will issue a final denial letter in accordance with § 2570.41(e) and will terminate all proceedings relating to the application. If a notice of proposed exemption has been published in the
Federal Register,
the Department will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
withdrawing the proposed exemption.
(c) Upon receiving an applicant's notice of withdrawal regarding an application for a class exemption or an individual exemption that is being considered with other applications as a request for a class exemption, the Department will inform any other applicants for the exemption of the withdrawal. The Department will continue to process other applications for the same exemption. If all applicants for a particular class exemption withdraw their applications, the Department may either terminate all proceedings relating to the exemption or propose the exemption on its own motion.
(d) If, following the withdrawal of an exemption application, an applicant decides to reapply for the same exemption, they may contact the Department in writing (including electronically) to request the Department to reinstate the application. The applicant should refer to the application number assigned to the original application. If, at the time the original application was withdrawn, any additional information required to be submitted to the Department under § 2570.39 was outstanding, that information must accompany the request for reinstatement of the application. The applicant must also update all previously furnished information to the Department in connection with a withdrawn application.
(e) Any request for reinstatement of a withdrawn application submitted in
accordance with paragraph (d) of this section will be granted by the Department, and the Department will take whatever steps remained to process the application when the applicant withdrew the application.
(f) Following the withdrawal of an exemption application, the administrative record will remain subject to public inspection and copy pursuant to § 2570.51.
§ 2570.45
Requests for reconsideration.
(a) The Department will entertain one request for reconsideration of an exemption application that the Department has denied pursuant to § 2570.41 if the applicant either:
(1) Presents significant new facts or arguments in support of the application, which, for good reason, could not have been submitted for the Department's consideration during its initial review of the exemption application; or
(2) The applicant received a final denial letter pursuant to § 2570.41(a) before the Department issued a tentative denial letter under § 2570.38 or conducted a hearing on the exemption under either § 2570.46 or § 2570.47.
(b) An applicant must submit a request for reconsideration of a previously denied application within 180 days after the issuance of the final denial letter and include with the request a copy of the Department's final denial letter and a statement setting forth the new information and/or arguments that provide the basis for reconsideration.
(c) A request for reconsideration must also be accompanied by a certification that the new information provided to the Department is true and correct, which is signed by a person qualified under § 2570.34(b)(6) to sign the certification.
(d) If, after reviewing a request for reconsideration, the Department decides that the facts and arguments presented do not warrant reversal of its original decision to deny the exemption, it will send a letter to the applicant reaffirming that decision.
(e) If, after reviewing a request for reconsideration, the Department decides to reconsider its final denial letter based on the new facts and arguments submitted by the applicant, it will notify the applicant of its intent to reconsider the application in light of the new information presented. The Department will then take whatever steps remained to be completed to process the exemption application when it issued its final denial letter.
(f) If, at any point during its subsequent processing of the application, the Department decides again that the exemption is unwarranted, it will issue a letter to the applicant affirming its final denial.
(g) The Department does not consider a request for reinstatement of an exemption application pursuant to § 2570.44(d) as a request for reconsideration governed by this section.
(h) If an applicant whose application was finally denied pursuant to § 2570.41(a)(1) or (2) cures the application by providing all required and requested information upon submission for reconsideration, the Department will reconsider the application under paragraph (e) of this section. If, upon reconsideration, the Department concludes that an exemption is not warranted, the Department will either hold a conference with the applicant under § 2570.40 or issue a tentative denial pursuant to the procedures in § 2570.38.
§ 2570.46
Hearings in opposition to exemptions from restrictions on fiduciary self-dealing and conflicts of interest.
(a) Any person who may be materially affected by an exemption which the Department proposes to grant from the restrictions of ERISA section 406(b), Code section 4975(c)(1)(E) or (F), or FERSA section 8477(c)(2) may request a hearing before the Department within the time period specified in the
Federal Register
notice of the proposed exemption. Any such request must state:
(1) The name, address, telephone number, and email address of the person making the request;
(2) The nature of the person's interest in the exemption and how the person would be materially affected by the exemption; and
(3) A statement of the issues to be addressed and a general description of the
evidence to be presented at the hearing.
(b) The Department will grant a request for a hearing made in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section if a hearing is necessary to fully explore material factual issues with respect to the proposed exemption identified by the person requesting the hearing. The Department will publish a notice of such hearing in the
Federal Register.
The Department may decline to hold a hearing if:
(1) The request for the hearing is not timely, or otherwise fails to include the information required by paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The only issues identified for exploration at the hearing are matters of law; or
(3) The factual issues identified can be fully explored through the submission of evidence in written (including electronic) form.
(c) An applicant for an exemption must notify interested persons if the Department schedules a hearing on the exemption. Such notification must be provided in the form, time, and manner prescribed by the Department. Ordinarily, however, adequate notification can be given by providing to interested persons a copy of the notice of hearing published by the Department in the
Federal Register
within 10 days after its publication, using any of the methods approved in § 2570.43(b).
(d) After furnishing the notice required by paragraph (c) of this section, an applicant must submit a statement confirming that notice was given in the form, manner, and time prescribed. This statement must be accompanied by a certification that the information provided in the statement is true and correct, which is signed by a person qualified under § 2570.34(b)(6) to sign a certification.
§ 2570.47
Other hearings.
(a) In its sole discretion, the Department may schedule a hearing on its own motion if it determines that issues relevant to the exemption can be most fully or expeditiously explored at a hearing. The Department shall publish a notice of such hearing in the
Federal Register
.
(b) An applicant for an exemption must notify interested persons of any hearing on an exemption scheduled by the Department in the manner described in § 2570.46(c). In addition, the applicant must submit a certification subscribed as true and correct like that required in § 2570.46(d).
§ 2570.48
Decision to grant exemptions.
(a) The Department may not grant an exemption under ERISA section 408(a), Code section 4975(c)(2), or 5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3)(C) unless, following evaluation of the facts and representations comprising the administrative record of the proposed exemption (including any comments received in response to a notice of proposed exemption and the record of any hearing held in connection with the proposed exemption), it finds that the exemption meets the statutory requirements by being:
(1) Administratively feasible for the Department;
(2) In the interests of the plan (or the Thrift Savings Fund in the case of FERSA) and of its participants and beneficiaries; and
(3) Protective of the rights of participants and beneficiaries of such plan (or the Thrift Savings Fund in the case of FERSA).
(b) In each instance where the Department determines to grant an exemption, it shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
which summarizes the transaction or transactions for which exemptive relief has been granted and specifies the conditions under which such exemptive relief is available.
§ 2570.49
Limits on the effect of exemptions.
(a) An exemption does not take effect with respect to the exemption transaction unless the material facts and representations contained in the application and in any materials and documents submitted in support of the application were true and complete at the time of the submission of such material.
(b) An exemption is effective only for the period of time specified and only
under the conditions set forth in the exemption.
(c) Only the specific parties to whom an exemption grants relief may rely on the exemption. If the notice granting an exemption does not limit exemptive relief to specific parties, all parties to the exemption transaction may rely on the exemption.
(d) For exemption transactions that are continuing in nature, an exemption ceases to be effective if, during the continuation of the exemption transaction, there are material changes to the original facts and representations underlying such exemption or if one or more of the exemption's conditions cease to be met.
(e) The determination as to whether, under the totality of the facts and circumstances, a particular statement contained in (or omitted from) an exemption application constitutes a material fact or representation is made by the Department in its sole discretion.
§ 2570.50
Revocation or modification of exemptions.
(a) If, after an exemption takes effect, material changes in facts, circumstances, or representations occur, including whether a qualified independent fiduciary resigns, is terminated, or is convicted of a crime, the Department, at its sole discretion, may take steps to revoke or modify the exemption. If the qualified independent fiduciary resigns, is terminated, or is convicted of a crime, the applicant must notify the Department within 30 days of the resignation, termination, or conviction, and the Department reserves the right to request the applicant to provide the Department with any of the information required pursuant to § 2570.34(e) and (f) pursuant to a time determined by the Department at its sole discretion.
(b) Before revoking or modifying an exemption, the Department will publish a notice of its proposed action in the
Federal Register
and provide interested persons with an opportunity to comment on the proposed revocation or modification. Before the Department publishes such notice, it will notify the applicant of the Department's proposed action and the reasons therefore. After the publication of the notice, the applicant will have the opportunity to comment on the proposed revocation or modification.
(c) The revocation or modification of an exemption will have prospective effect only.
§ 2570.51
Public inspection and copies.
(a) From the date the administrative record of each exemption is established pursuant to § 2570.32(d), the administrative record of each exemption will be open for public inspection and copying at the EBSA Public Disclosure Room, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20210.
(b) Upon request, the staff of the Public Disclosure Room will furnish photocopies of an administrative record, or any specified portion of that record, for a specified charge per page; or, at the discretion of the Department, provide the administrative record electronically for a specified charge.
§ 2570.52
Effective date.
This subpart is effective with respect to all exemptions filed with or initiated by the Department under ERISA section 408(a), Code section 4975(c)(2), and/or 5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3) at any time on or after April 8, 2024. Applications for exemptions under ERISA section 408(a), Code section 4975(c)(2), and/or 5 U.S.C. 8477(c)(3) filed on or after December 27, 2011, but before April 8, 2024, are governed by 29 CFR part 2570 (revised effective December 27, 2011).

# Subpart C—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(2)

# Source:
54 FR 26897, June 26, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.60
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this subpart are applicable to “502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings” (as defined in § 2570.61(n) of this subpart) under section 502(c)(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The rules of procedure for administrative
hearings published by the Department's Office of Law Judges at part 18 of this title will apply to matters arising under ERISA section 502(c)(2) except as modified by this section. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2570.61
Definitions.
For 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of the definitions in § 18.2 of this title:
(a)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding before an administrative law judge leading to the formulation of a final order;
(b)
Administrative law ludge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105;
(c)
Answer
means a written statement that is supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to § 2560.502c-2(g) of this chapter.
(d)
Commencement of proceeding
is the filing of an answer by the respondent;
(e)
Consent agreement
means any written document containing a specified proposed remedy or other relief acceptable to the Department and consenting parties;
(f)
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(g)
Final Order
means the final decision or action of the Department of Labor concerning the assessment of a civil penalty under ERISA section 502(c)(2) against a particular party. Such final order may result from a decision of an administrative law judge or the Secretary, the failure of a party to file a statement of reasonable cause described in § 2560.502c-2(e) within the prescribed time limits, or the failure of a party to invoke the procedures for hearings or appeals under this title within the prescribed time limits. Such a final order shall constitute final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704;
(h)
Hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, to the administrative law judge;
(i)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a matter under ERISA section 502(c)(2);
(j)
Party
includes a person or agency named or admitted as a party to a proceeding;
(k)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, exchange or other entity or organization;
(l)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person or party, for some affirmative action;
(m)
Pleading
means the notice as defined in § 2560.502c-2(g), the answer to the notice, any supplement or amendment thereto, and any reply that may be permitted to any answer, supplement or amendment;
(n)
502(c)(2) civil penalty proceeding
means an adjudicatory proceeding relating to the assessment of a civil penalty provided for in section 502(c)(2) of ERISA;
(o)
Respondent
means the party against whom the Department is seeking to assess a civil sanction under ERISA section 502(c)(2);
(p)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor and includes, pursuant to any delegation of authority by the Secretary, any assistant secretary (including the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security), administrator, commissioner, appellate body, board, or other official; and
(q)
Solicitor
means the Solicitor of Labor or his or her delegate.
[54 FR 26897, June 26, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 3737, Jan. 24, 2003]
§ 2570.62
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
For 502(c)(2) penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.3 of this title.
(a)
General.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record. All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents to be filed shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ Regional Office to
which the proceeding may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions petitions, pleadings, briefs, or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy, including any attachments, to all other parties or record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing a copy to the last known address. The Department shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA section 502(c)(2) Proceeding, P.O. Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions and all other documents shall be made by regular mail to the last known address.
(d)
Form of pleadings.
(1) Every pleading shall contain information indicating the name of the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss, etc.). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they should be typewritten when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopies, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
[54 FR 26897, June 26, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 54708, Oct. 22, 1991]
§ 2570.63
Parties, how designated.
For 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.10 of this title.
(a) The term “party” wherever used in these rules shall include any natural person, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, firm, partnership, trustee, receiver, agency, public or private organization, or government agency. A party against whom a civil penalty is sought shall be designated as “respondent.” The Department shall be designated as the “complainant.”
(b) Other persons or organizations shall be permitted to participate as parties only if the administrative law judge finds that the final decision could directly and adversely affect them or the class they represent, that they may contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings and their interest is not adequately represented by existing parties, and that in the discretion of the administrative law judge the participation of such persons or organizations would be appropriate.
(c) A person or organization not named as a respondent wishing to participate as a party under this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within fifteen (15) days after the person or organization has knowledge of or should have known about the proceeding. The petition shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on each person or organization who has been made a party at the time of filing. Such petition shall concisely state:
(1) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;
(2) How his or her participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the proceeding;
(3) Who will appear for petitioner;
(4) The issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(5) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(d) Objections to the petition may be filed by a party within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the petition. If objections to the petition are filed, the administrative law judge shall then determine whether petitioners have the requisite interest to be a party in the proceedings, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the administrative law judge may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or he or she may recognize one
or more of such petitioners. The administrative law judge shall give each such petitioner as well as the parties, written notice of the decision on his or her petition. For each petition granted, the administrative law judge shall provide a brief statement of the basis of the decision. If the petition is denied, he or she shall briefly state the grounds for denial and shall then treat the petition as a request for participation as amicus curiae.
§ 2570.64
Consequences of default.
For 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.5(a) and (b) of this title. Failure of the respondent to file an answer to the notice of determination described in § 2560.502c-2(g) of this chapter within the 30 day period provided by § 2560.502c-2(h) of this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice of determination, and such failure shall be deemed to be an admission of the facts as alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(2) of the Act. Such notice shall then become the final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.61(g) of this subpart, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
[68 FR 3737, Jan. 24, 2003]
§ 2570.65
Consent order or settlement.
For 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings, the following shall apply in lieu of § 18.9 of this title.
(a)
General.
At any time after the commencement of a proceeding, but at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time to permit negotiation of a settlement or an agreement containing findings and an order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such and the duration thereof shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge, after consideration of such factors as the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties and the probability of reaching an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issues involved.
(b)
Content.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which any order may be based shall consist solely of the notice and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge;
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the order and decision entered into in accordance with the agreement; and
(5) That the order and decision of the administrative law judge shall be final agency action.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, but, in any case, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties or their authorized representative or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order to the administrative law judge; or
(2) Notify the administrative law judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action subject to compliance with the terms of the settlement; or
(3) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
In the event a settlement agreement containing consent findings and an order is submitted within the time allowed therefore, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision incorporating such findings and agreement within thirty (30) days of his receipt of such document. The decision of the administrative law judge shall incorporate all of the findings, terms, and conditions of the settlement agreement and consent order of the parties. Such decision shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(e)
Settlement without consent of all parties.
In cases in which some, but not
all, of the parties to a proceeding submit a consent agreement to the administrative law judge, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) If all of the parties have not consented to the proposed settlement submitted to the administrative law judge, then such non-consenting parties must receive notice, and a copy, of the proposed settlement at the time it is submitted to the administrative law judge;
(2) Any non-consenting party shall have fifteen (15) days to file any objections to the proposed settlement with the administrative law judge and all other parties;
(3) If any party submits an objection to the proposed settlement, the administrative law judge shall decide within thirty (30) days after receipt of such objections whether he shall sign or reject the proposed settlement. Where the record lacks substantial evidence upon which to base a decision or there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the administrative law judge may establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence upon which a decision on the contested issues may reasonably be based;
(4) If there are no objections to the proposed settlement, or if the administrative law judge decides to sign the proposed settlement after reviewing any such objections, the administrative law judge shall incorporate the consent agreement into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 2570.66
Scope of discovery.
For 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.14 of this title.
(a) A party may file a motion to conduct discovery with the administrative law judge. The motion for discovery shall be granted by the administrative law judge only upon a showing of good cause. In order to establish “good cause” for the purposes of this section, a party must show that the discovery requested relates to a genuine issue as to a material fact that is relevant to the proceeding. The order of the administrative law judge shall expressly limit the scope and terms of discovery to that for which “good cause” has been shown, as provided in this paragraph.
(b) A party may obtain discovery of documents and tangible things otherwise discoverable under paragraph (a) of this section and prepared in anticipation of or for the hearing by or for another party's representative (including his or her attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent) only upon showing that the party seeking discovery has substantial need of the materials or information in the preparation of his or her case and that he or she is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials or information by other means. In ordering discovery of such materials when the required showing has been made, the administrative law judge shall protect against disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representatives of a party concerning the proceeding.
§ 2570.67
Summary decision.
For 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.41 of this title.
(a)
No genuine issue of material of fact.
(1) Where no issue of a material of fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge may issue a decision which, in the absence of an appeal pursuant to §§ 2570.69 through 2570.71 of this subpart, shall become a final order.
(2) A decision made under this paragraph shall include a statement of:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons therefor, on all issues presented; and
(ii) Any terms and conditions of the rule or order.
(3) A copy of any decision under this paragraph shall be served on each party.
(b)
Hearings on issues of fact.
Where a genuine question of material of fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing.
§ 2570.68
Decision of the administrative law judge.
For 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.57 of this title.
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony of such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision of the administative law judge.
Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within thirty (30) days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the administrative law judge shall make his or her decision. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law with reasons therefor upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record. In a contested case in which the Department and the Respondent have presented their positions to the administrative law judge pursuant to the procedures for 502(c)(2) civil penalty proceedings as set forth in this subpart, the penalty (if any) which may be included in the decision of the administrative law judge shall be limited to the penalty expressly provided for in section 502(c)(2) of ERISA. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 unless an appeal is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 2570.69 through 2570.71.
§ 2570.69
Review by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may review a decision of an administrative law judge. Such a review may occur only when a party files a notice of appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge within twenty (20) days of the issuance of such decision. In all other cases, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A notice of appeal to the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the decision of the administrative law judge on which the party is seeking review. Such notice of appeal must be served on all parties of record.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to submit to him or her a copy of the entire record before the administrative law judge.
§ 2570.70
Scope of review.
The review of the Secretary shall not be
de novo
proceeding but rather a review of the record established before the administrative law judge. There shall be no opportunity for oral argument.
§ 2570.71
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
(a) Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Secretary shall establish a briefing schedule which shall be served on all parties of record. Upon motion of one or more of the parties, the Secretary may, in his or her discretion, permit the submission of reply briefs.
(b) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible after receipt of the briefs of the parties. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision on appeal and shall issue a statement of reasons and bases for the action(s) taken. Such decision by the Secretary shall be final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart D—Procedure for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(l)

# Source:
55 FR 25286, June 20, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.80
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this subpart are applicable to “502(l) civil penalty proceedings” (as defined in § 2570.82 of this subpart) under section 502(l) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or
the Act). Refer to 29 CFR 2560.502-1 for the definition of the relevant terms of ERISA section 502(l).
§ 2570.81
In general.
Section 502(l) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or the Act) requires the Secretary of Labor to assess a civil penalty against a fiduciary who breaches a fiduciary responsibility under, or commits any other violation of, part 4 of title I of ERISA or any other person who knowingly participates in such breach or violation. The penalty under section 502(l) is equal to 20 percent of the “applicable recovery amount” paid pursuant to any settlement agreement with the Secretary or ordered by a court to be paid in a judicial proceeding instituted by the Secretary under section 502 (a)(2) or (a)(5). The Secretary may, in the Secretary's sole discretion, waive or reduce the penalty if the Secretary determines in writing that:
(a) The fiduciary or other person acted reasonably and in good faith, or
(b) It is reasonable to expect that the fiduciary or other person will not be able to restore all losses to the plan or any participant or beneficiary of such plan without severe financial hardship unless such waiver or reduction is granted.
The penalty imposed on a fiduciary or other person with respect to any transaction shall be reduced by the amount of any penalty or tax imposed on such fiduciary or other person with respect to such transaction under section 502(i) or section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code).
§ 2570.82
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(a)
502(l) civil penalty proceedings
means an adjudicatory proceeding relating to the assessment of a civil penalty provided in section 502(l) of ERISA;
(b)
Notice of assessment
means any document, however designated, issued by the Secretary which contains a specified assessment, in monetary terms, of a civil penalty under ERISA section 502(l). A “notice of assessment” will contain a brief factual description of the violation for which the assessment is being made, the identity of the person being assessed, and the amount of the assessment and the basis for assessing that particular person that particular penalty amount;
(c)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, exchange or other entity or organization;
(d)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person, for a waiver or reduction of the civil penalty described herein; and
(e)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor and includes, pursuant to any delegation of authority by the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security, Regional Directors for Employee Benefits Security, or Deputy Regional Directors for Employee Benefits Security.
[55 FR 25286, June 20, 1990, as amended at 68 FR 16400, Apr. 3, 2003]
§ 2570.83
Assessment of civil penalty.
(a) Except as described in §§ 2570.85 and 2570.86 of this part, subsequent to the payment of the applicable recovery amount pursuant to either a settlement agreement or a court order, the Secretary shall serve on the person liable for making such payment a notice of assessment of civil penalty equal to 20 percent of the applicable recovery amount.
(b) Service of such notice shall be made either:
(1) By delivering a copy to the person being assessed; if the person is an individual, to the individual; if the person is a partnership, to any partner; if the person is a corporation, association, exchange, or other entity or organization, to any officer of such entity; if the person is an employee benefit plan, to a trustee of such plan; or to any attorney representing any such person;
(2) By leaving a copy at the principal office, place of business, or residence of such individual, partner, officer, trustee, or attorney; or
(3) By mailing a copy to the last known address of such individual, partner, officer, trustee, or attorney.
If service is accomplished by certified mail, service is complete upon mailing. If done by regular mail, service is complete upon receipt by the addressee.
§ 2570.84
Payment of civil penalty.
(a) The civil penalty must be paid within 60 days of service of the notice of assessment.
(b) At any time prior to the expiration of the payment period for the assessed penalty, any person who has committed, or knowingly participated in, a breach or violation, or has been alleged by the Secretary to have so committed or participated, may submit a written request for a conference with the Secretary to discuss the calculation of the assessed penalty. A person will be entitled under this section to one such conference per assessment. If such written request is submitted during the 60 day payment period described in subparagraph (a), such a request will not toll the running of that payment period.
(c) The notice of assessment will become a final order (within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704) on the first day following the 60 day payment period, subject to any tolling caused by a petition to waive or reduce described in § 2570.85.
§ 2570.85
Waiver or reduction of civil penalty.
(a) At any time prior to the expiration of the payment period for the assessed penalty, any person who has committed, or knowingly participated in, a breach or violation, or has been alleged by the Secretary to have so committed or participated, may petition the Secretary to waive or reduce the penalty under this section on the basis that:
(1) The person acted reasonably and in good faith in engaging in the breach or violation; or
(2) The person will not be able to restore all losses to the plan or participant or beneficiary of such plan without severe financial hardship unless such waiver or reduction is granted.
(b) All petitions for waiver or reduction shall be in writing and contain the following information:
(1) The name of the petitioner(s);
(2) A detailed description of the breach or violation which is the subject of the penalty;
(3) A detailed recitation of the facts which support one, or both, of the bases for waiver or reduction described in § 2570.85(a) of this part, accompanied by underlying documentation supporting such factual allegations;
(4) A declaration, signed and dated by the petitioner(s), in the following form:
Under penalty of perjury, I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the representations made in this petition are true and correct.
(c) If a petition for waiver or reduction is submitted during the 60 day payment period described in § 2570.84(a) of this part, the payment period for the penalty in question will be tolled pending Departmental consideration of the petition. During such consideration, the applicant is entitled to one conference with the Secretary, but the Secretary, in his or her sole discretion, may schedule or hold additional conferences with the petitioner concerning the factual allegations contained in the petition.
(d) Based solely on his or her discretion, the Secretary will determine whether to grant such a waiver or reduction. Pursuant to the procedure described in § 2570.83(b), the petitioner will be served with a written determination informing him or her of the Secretary's decision. Such written determination shall briefly state the grounds for the Secretary's decision, and shall be final and non-reviewable. In the case of a determination not to waive, the payment period for the penalty in question, if previously initiated, will resume as of the date of service of the Secretary's written determination.
§ 2570.86
Reduction of penalty by other penalty assessments.
The penalty assessed on a person pursuant to this section with respect to any transaction shall be reduced by the amount of any penalty or tax imposed on such person with respect to such transaction under ERISA section 502(i) and section 4975 of the Code. Prior to a reduction of penalty under this paragraph, the person being assessed must provide proof to the Department of the payment of the penalty or tax and the amount of that payment. Submissions of proof of other penalty or tax assessments will not toll the 60 day payment period, if previously initiated.
§ 2570.87
Revision of assessment.
If, based on the procedures described in § 2570.84, 2570.85, or 2570.86, the assessed penalty amount is revised, the person being assessed will receive a revised notice of assessment and will be obligated to pay the revised assessed penalty within the relevant 60 day payment period (as determined by the applicable procedure in § 2570.84, 2570.85, or 2570.86), and, if necessary, any excess penalty payment will be refunded as soon as administratively feasible. The revised notice of assessment will revoke any previously issued notice of assessment with regard to the transaction in question and will become a final order (within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704) the later of the first day following the 60 day payment period or the date of its service on the person being assessed, pursuant to the service procedures described in § 2570.83(b).
§ 2570.88
Effective date.
This section is effective June 20, 1990, and shall apply to assessments under section 502(l) made by the Secretary after June 20, 1990, based on any breach or violation occurring on or after December 19, 1989.

# Subpart E—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(5)

# Source:
68 FR 17508, Apr. 9, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.90
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this subpart are applicable to “502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings” (as defined in 2570.91(n)) under section 502(c)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The rules of procedure for administrative hearings published by the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges in subpart A of 29 CFR part 18 will apply to matters arising under ERISA section 502(c)(5) except as described by this section. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2570.91
Definitions.
For 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of the definitions in § 18.2 of this title.
(a)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding before an administrative law judge leading to the formulation of a final order;
(b)
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105;
(c)
Answer
means a written statement that is supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to 29 CFR 2560.502c-5(g);
(d)
Commencement of proceeding
is the filing of an answer by the respondent;
(e)
Consent agreement
means any written document containing a specified proposed remedy or other relief acceptable to the Department and consenting parties;
(f)
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(g)
Final order
means the final decision or action of the Department of Labor concerning the assessment of a civil penalty under ERISA section 502(c)(5) against a particular party. Such final order may result from a decision of an administrative law judge or the Secretary, the failure of a party to file a statement of reasonable cause described in 29 CFR 2560.502c-5(e) within the prescribed time limits, or the failure of a party to invoke the procedures for hearings or appeals under this title within the prescribed time limits. Such a final order shall constitute final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704;
(h)
Hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, to the administrative law judge;
(i)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a matter under ERISA section 502(c)(5);
(j)
Party
includes a person or agency named or admitted as a party to a proceeding;
(k)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, exchange, or other entity or organization;
(l)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person or party, for some affirmative action;
(m)
Pleading
means the notice as defined in 29 CFR 2560.502c-5(g), the answer to the notice, any supplement or amendment thereto, and any reply that may be permitted to any answer, supplement or amendment;
(n)
502(c)(5) civil penalty proceeding
means an adjudicatory proceeding relating to the assessment of a civil penalty provided for in section 502(c)(5) of ERISA;
(o)
Respondent
means the party against whom the Department is seeking to assess a civil sanction under ERISA section 502(c)(5);
(p)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor and includes, pursuant to any delegation of authority by the Secretary, any assistant secretary (including the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security), administrator, commissioner, appellate body, board, or other official of the Department of Labor; and
(q)
Solicitor
means the Solicitor of Labor or his or her delegate.
§ 2570.92
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
For 502(c)(5) penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of 29 CFR 18.3.
(a)
In general.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record. All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents to be filed shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ), 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ Regional Office to which the proceeding may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions, petitions, pleadings, briefs, or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy, including any attachments, to all other parties of record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing a copy to the last known address. The Department shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA Section 502(c)(5) Proceeding, P.O. Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions and all other documents shall be made by regular mail to the last known address.
(d)
Form of pleadings
—(1) Every pleading shall contain information indicating the name of the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss, etc.). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they should be typewritten when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopies, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
§ 2570.93
Parties, how designated.
For 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of 29 CFR 18.10.
(a) The term
party
wherever used in this subpart shall include any natural person, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, firm, partnership, trustee, receiver, agency, public or private organization, or government agency. A party against whom a civil penalty is sought shall be designated as “respondent.” The Department shall be designated as the “complainant.”
(b) Other persons or organizations shall be permitted to participate as parties only if the administrative law judge finds that the final decision could directly and adversely affect
them or the class they represent, that they may contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings and their interest is not adequately represented by existing parties, and that in the discretion of the administrative law judge the participation of such persons or organizations would be appropriate.
(c) A person or organization not named as a respondent wishing to participate as a party under this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within fifteen (15) days after the person or organization has knowledge of or should have known about the proceeding. The petition shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on each person or organization who has been made a party at the time of filing. Such petition shall concisely state:
(1) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;
(2) How his or her participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the proceeding;
(3) Who will appear for petitioner;
(4) The issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(5) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(d) Objections to the petition may be filed by a party within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the petition. If objections to the petition are filed, the administrative law judge shall then determine whether petitioners have the requisite interest to be a party in the proceedings, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the administrative law judge may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or he or she may recognize one or more of such petitioners. The administrative law judge shall give each such petitioner as well as the parties, written notice of the decision on his or her petition. For each petition granted, the administrative law judge shall provide a brief statement of the basis of the decision. If the petition is denied, he or she shall briefly state the grounds for denial and shall then treat the petition as a request for participation as amicus curiae.
§ 2570.94
Consequences of default.
For 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of 29 CFR 18.5(a) and (b). Failure of the respondent to file an answer to the notice of determination described in 29 CFR 2560.502c-5(g) within the 30 day period provided by 29 CFR 2560.502c-5(h) shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice of determination, and such failure shall be deemed to be an admission of the facts as alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(5) of the Act. Such notice shall then become a final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.91(g), forty-five (45) days from the date of the service of the notice.
§ 2570.95
Consent order or settlement.
For 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings, the following shall apply in lieu of 29 CFR 18.9.
(a)
In general.
At any time after the commencement of a proceeding, but at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time to permit negotiation of a settlement or an agreement containing findings and an order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such deferment and the duration thereof shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge, after consideration of such factors as the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties and the probability of reaching an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issues involved.
(b)
Content.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which any order may be based shall consist solely of the notice and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge;
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the order and decision entered into in accordance with the agreement; and
(5) That the order and decision of the administrative law judge shall be final agency action.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, but, in any case, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties or their authorized representative or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order to the administrative law judge;
(2) Notify the administrative law judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action subject to compliance with the terms of the settlement; or
(3) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
In the event that a settlement agreement containing consent findings and an order is submitted within the time allowed therefor, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision incorporating such findings and agreement within thirty (30) days of receipt of such document. The decision of the administrative law judge shall incorporate all of the findings, terms, and conditions of the settlement agreement and consent order of the parties. Such decision shall become a final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(e)
Settlement without consent of all parties.
In cases in which some, but not all, of the parties to a proceeding submit a consent agreement to the administrative law judge, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) If all of the parties have not consented to the proposed settlement submitted to the administrative law judge, then such non-consenting parties must receive notice, and a copy, of the proposed settlement at the time it is submitted to the administrative law judge;
(2) Any non-consenting party shall have fifteen (15) days to file any objections to the proposed settlement with the administrative law judge and all other parties;
(3) If any party submits an objection to the proposed settlement, the administrative law judge shall decide within thirty (30) days after receipt of such objections whether to sign or reject the proposed settlement. Where the record lacks substantial evidence upon which to base a decision or there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the administrative law judge may establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence upon which a decision on the contested issues may reasonably be based;
(4) If there are no objections to the proposed settlement, or if the administrative law judge decides to sign the proposed settlement after reviewing any such objections, the administrative law judge shall incorporate the consent agreement into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 2570.96
Scope of discovery.
For 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of 29 CFR 18.14.
(a) A party may file a motion to conduct discovery with the administrative law judge. The motion for discovery shall be granted by the administrative law judge only upon a showing of good cause. In order to establish “good cause” for the purposes of this section, a party must show that the discovery requested relates to a genuine issue as to a material fact that is relevant to the proceeding. The order of the administrative law judge shall expressly limit the scope and terms of discovery to that for which “good cause” has been shown, as provided in this paragraph.
(b) A party may obtain discovery of documents and tangible things otherwise discoverable under paragraph (a) of this section and prepared in anticipation of or for the hearing by or for another party's representative (including his or her attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent) only upon showing that the party seeking discovery has substantial need of the materials or information in the preparation of his or her case and that he or she is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials or information by
other means. In ordering discovery of such materials when the required showing has been made, the administrative law judge shall protect against disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representative of a party concerning the proceeding.
§ 2570.97
Summary decision.
For 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of 29 CFR 18.41.
(a)
No genuine issue of material fact.
(1) Where no issue of material fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge may issue a decision which, in the absence of an appeal pursuant to §§ 2570.99 through 2570.101, shall become a final order.
(2) A decision made under this paragraph shall include a statement of:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons therefore, on all issues presented; and
(ii) Any terms and conditions of the rule or order.
(3) A copy of any decision under this paragraph shall be served on each party.
(b)
Hearings on issues of fact.
Where a genuine question of material fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing.
§ 2570.98
Decision of the administrative law judge.
For 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of 29 CFR 18.57.
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and an order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision of the administrative law judge.
Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within thirty (30) days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the administrative law judge shall make his or her decision. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law with reasons therefor upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record. In a contested case in which the Department and the Respondent have presented their positions to the administrative law judge pursuant to the procedures for 502(c)(5) civil penalty proceedings as set forth in this subpart, the penalty (if any) which may be included in the decision of the administrative law judge shall be limited to the penalty expressly provided for in section 502(c)(5) of ERISA. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The decision of the administrative law judge shall become a final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 unless an appeal is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 2570.99 through 2570.101.
§ 2570.99
Review by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may review a decision of an administrative law judge. Such a review may occur only when a party files a notice of appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge within twenty (20) days of the issuance of such decision. In all other cases, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A notice of appeal to the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the decision of the administrative law judge on which the party is seeking review. Such notice of appeal must be served on all parties of record.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to submit to him or her a copy of the entire record before the administrative law judge.
§ 2570.100
Scope of review.
The review of the Secretary shall not be a
de novo
proceeding but rather a review of the record established before the administrative law judge. There shall be no opportunity for oral argument.
§ 2570.101
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
(a) Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Secretary shall establish a briefing schedule which shall be served on all parties of record. Upon motion of one or more of the parties, the Secretary may, in his or her discretion, permit the submission of reply briefs.
(b) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible after receipt of the briefs of the parties. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision on appeal and shall issue a statement of reasons and bases for the action(s) taken. Such decision by the Secretary shall be final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart F—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(6)

# Source:
67 FR 786, Jan. 7, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.110
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this subpart are applicable to “502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings” (as defined in § 2570.111(n) of this subpart) under section 502(c)(6) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The rules of procedure for administrative hearings published by the Department's Office of Law Judges at Part 18 of this title will apply to matters arising under ERISA section 502(c)(6) except as modified by this section. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2570.111
Definitions.
For section 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of the definitions in § 18.2 of this title:
(a)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding before an administrative law judge leading to the formulation of a final order;
(b)
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105;
(c)
Answer
means a written statement that is supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to § 2560.502c-6(g) of this chapter;
(d)
Commencement of proceeding
is the filing of an answer by the respondent;
(e)
Consent agreement
means any written document containing a specified proposed remedy or other relief acceptable to the Department and consenting parties;
(f)
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(g)
Final order
means the final decision or action of the Department of Labor concerning the assessment of a civil penalty under ERISA section 502(c)(6) against a particular party. Such final order may result from a decision of an administrative law judge or the Secretary, the failure of a party to file a statement of matters reasonably beyond the control of the plan administrator described in § 2560.502c-6(e) of this chapter within the prescribed time limits, or the failure of a party to invoke the procedures for hearings or appeals under this title within the prescribed time limits. Such a final order shall constitute final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704;
(h)
Hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, to the administrative law judge;
(i)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a matter under ERISA section 502(c)(6);
(j)
Party
includes a person or agency named or admitted as a party to a proceeding;
(k)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee
benefit plan, association, exchange or other entity or organization;
(l)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person or party, for some affirmative action;
(m)
Pleading
means the notice as defined in § 2560.502c-6(g) of this chapter, the answer to the notice, any supplement or amendment thereto, and any reply that may be permitted to any answer, supplement or amendment;
(n)
502(c)(6) civil penalty proceeding
means an adjudicatory proceeding relating to the assessment of a civil penalty provided for in section 502(c)(6) of ERISA;
(o)
Respondent
means the party against whom the Department is seeking to assess a civil sanction under ERISA section 502(c)(6);
(p)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor and includes, pursuant to any delegation of authority by the Secretary, any assistant secretary (including the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security), administrator, commissioner, appellate body, board, or other official; and
(q)
Solicitor
means the Solicitor of Labor or his or her delegate.
§ 2570.112
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
For 502(c)(6) penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.3 of this title.
(a)
General.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record. All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents to be filed shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ Regional Office to which the proceeding may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions, petitions, pleadings, briefs, or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy, including any attachments, to all other parties of record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing a copy to the last known address. The Department shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA section 502(c)(6) Proceeding, P.O. Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions and all other documents shall be made by regular mail to the last known address.
(d)
Form of pleadings.
(1) Every pleading shall contain information indicating the name of the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss, etc.). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they should be typewritten when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
§ 2570.113
Parties, how designated.
For 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.10 of this title.
(a) The term “party” wherever used in this subpart shall include any natural person, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, firm, partnership, trustee, receiver, agency, public or private organization, or government agency. A party against whom a civil penalty is sought shall be designated as “respondent”. The Department shall be designated as the “complainant”.
(b) Other persons or organizations shall be permitted to participate as parties only if the administrative law judge finds that the final decision could directly and adversely affect them or the class they represent, that they may contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings and their
interest is not adequately represented by existing parties, and that in the discretion of the administrative law judge the participation of such persons or organizations would be appropriate.
(c) A person or organization not named as a respondent wishing to participate as a party under this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within fifteen (15) days after the person or organization has knowledge of or should have known about the proceeding. The petition shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on each person or organization who has been made a party at the time of filing. Such petition shall concisely state:
(1) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;
(2) How his or her participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the proceeding;
(3) Who will appear for petitioner;
(4) The issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(5) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(d) Objections to the petition may be filed by a party within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the petition. If objections to the petition are filed, the administrative law judge shall then determine whether petitioner has the requisite interest to be a party in the proceedings, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the administrative law judge may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or he or she may recognize one or more of such petitioners. The administrative law judge shall give each such petitioner, as well as the parties, written notice of the decision on his or her petition. For each petition granted, the administrative law judge shall provide a brief statement of the basis of the decision. If the petition is denied, he or she shall briefly state the grounds for denial and shall then treat the petition as a request for participation as amicus curiae.
§ 2570.114
Consequences of default.
For 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.5(a) and (b) of this title. Failure of the respondent to file an answer to the notice of determination described in § 2560.502c-6(g) of this chapter within the 30 day period provided by § 2560.502c-6(h) of this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice of determination, and such failure shall be deemed to be an admission of the facts as alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(6) of the Act. Such notice shall then become the final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.111(g) of this subpart, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
[68 FR 3738, Jan. 24, 2003]
§ 2570.115
Consent order or settlement.
For 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings, the following shall apply in lieu of § 18.9 of this title.
(a)
General.
At any time after the commencement of a proceeding, but at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time to permit negotiation of a settlement or an agreement containing findings and an order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such a deferral and the duration thereof shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge, after consideration of such factors as the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties, and the probability of reaching an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issues involved.
(b)
Content.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which any order may be based shall consist solely of the notice and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge;
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the order and decision entered into in accordance with the agreement; and
(5) That the order and decision of the administrative law judge shall be final agency action.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, but, in any case, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties or their authorized representative or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order to the administrative law judge; or
(2) Notify the administrative law judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action subject to compliance with the terms of the settlement; or
(3) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
In the event a settlement agreement containing consent findings and an order is submitted within the time allowed therefor, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision incorporating such findings and agreement within 30 days of his receipt of such document. The decision of the administrative law judge shall incorporate all of the findings, terms, and conditions of the settlement agreement and consent order of the parties. Such decision shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(e)
Settlement without consent of all parties.
In cases in which some, but not all, of the parties to a proceeding submit a consent agreement to the administrative law judge, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) If all of the parties have not consented to the proposed settlement submitted to the administrative law judge, then such non-consenting parties must receive notice, and a copy, of the proposed settlement at the time it is submitted to the administrative law judge;
(2) Any non-consenting party shall have fifteen (15) days to file any objections to the proposed settlement with the administrative law judge and all other parties;
(3) If any party submits an objection to the proposed settlement, the administrative law judge shall decide within 30 days after receipt of such objections whether he shall sign or reject the proposed settlement. Where the record lacks substantial evidence upon which to base a decision or there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the administrative law judge may establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence upon which a decision on the contested issues may reasonably be based;
(4) If there are no objections to the proposed settlement, or if the administrative law judge decides to sign the proposed settlement after reviewing any such objections, the administrative law judge shall incorporate the consent agreement into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 2570.116
Scope of discovery.
For 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.14 of this title.
(a) A party may file a motion to conduct discovery with the administrative law judge. The motion for discovery shall be granted by the administrative law judge only upon a showing of good cause. In order to establish “good cause” for the purposes of this section, a party must show that the discovery requested relates to a genuine issue as to a material fact that is relevant to the proceeding. The order of the administrative law judge shall expressly limit the scope and terms of discovery to that for which “good cause” has been shown, as provided in this paragraph.
(b) A party may obtain discovery of documents and tangible things otherwise discoverable under paragraph (a) of this section and prepared in anticipation of or for the hearing by or for another party's representative (including his or her attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent) only upon showing that the party seeking discovery has substantial need of the materials or information in the preparation of his or her case and that
he or she is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials or information by other means. In ordering discovery of such materials when the required showing has been made, the administrative law judge shall protect against disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representatives of a party concerning the proceeding.
§ 2570.117
Summary decision.
For 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.41 of this title.
(a)
No genuine issue of material fact.
(1) Where no issue of a material fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge may issue a decision which, in the absence of an appeal pursuant to §§ 2570.119 through 2570.121 of this subpart, shall become a final order.
(2) A decision made under this paragraph (a) shall include a statement of:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons therefor, on all issues presented; and
(ii) Any terms and conditions of the rule or order.
(3) A copy of any decision under this paragraph shall be served on each party.
(b)
Hearings on issues of fact.
Where a genuine question of a material fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing.
§ 2570.118
Decision of the administrative law judge.
For 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.57 of this title.
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony, or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision of the administrative law judge.
Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within 30 days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the administrative law judge shall make his or her decision. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law with reasons therefor upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record. In a contested case in which the Department and the Respondent have presented their positions to the administrative law judge pursuant to the procedures for 502(c)(6) civil penalty proceedings as set forth in this subpart, the penalty (if any) which may be included in the decision of the administrative law judge shall be limited to the penalty expressly provided for in section 502(c)(6) of ERISA. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 unless an appeal is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 2570.119 through 2570.121.
§ 2570.119
Review by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may review a decision of an administrative law judge. Such a review may occur only when a party files a notice of appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge within twenty (20) days of the issuance of such decision. In all other cases, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A notice of appeal to the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the decision of the administrative law judge on which the party is seeking review. Such notice of appeal must be served on all parties of record.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to submit to him or her a copy of the entire
record before the administrative law judge.
§ 2570.120
Scope of review.
The review of the Secretary shall not be a
de novo
proceeding but rather a review of the record established before the administrative law judge. There shall be no opportunity for oral argument.
§ 2570.121
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
(a) Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Secretary shall establish a briefing schedule which shall be served on all parties of record. Upon motion of one or more of the parties, the Secretary may, in his or her discretion, permit the submission of reply briefs.
(b) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible after receipt of the briefs of the parties. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision on appeal and shall issue a statement of reasons and bases for the action(s) taken. Such decision by the Secretary shall be final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart G—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(7)

# Source:
68 FR 3738, Jan. 24, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.130
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this subpart are applicable to “502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings” (as defined in § 2570.131(n) of this subpart) under section 502(c)(7) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act). The rules of procedure for administrative hearings published by the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges at Part 18 of this title will apply to matters arising under ERISA section 502(c)(7) except as modified by this subpart. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2570.131
Definitions.
For 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of the definitions in § 18.2 of this title:
(a)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding before an administrative law judge leading to the formulation of a final order;
(b)
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105;
(c)
Answer
means a written statement that is supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to § 2560.502c-7(g) of this chapter;
(d)
Commencement of proceeding
is the filing of an answer by the respondent;
(e)
Consent agreement
means any written document containing a specified proposed remedy or other relief acceptable to the Department and consenting parties;
(f)
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(g)
Final order
means the final decision or action of the Department of Labor concerning the assessment of a civil penalty under ERISA section 502(c)(7) against a particular party. Such final order may result from a decision of an administrative law judge or the Secretary, the failure of a party to file a statement of reasonable cause described in § 2560.502c-7(e) of this chapter within the prescribed time limits, or the failure of a party to invoke the procedures for hearings or appeals under this title within the prescribed time limits. Such a final order shall constitute final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704;
(h)
Hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, by either oral presentation or written submission, to the administrative law judge;
(i)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a matter under ERISA section 502(c)(7);
(j)
Party
includes a person or agency named or admitted as a party to a proceeding;
(k)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, exchange or other entity or organization;
(l)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person or party, for some affirmative action;
(m)
Pleading
means the notice as defined in § 2560.502c-7(g) of this chapter, the answer to the notice, any supplement or amendment thereto, and any reply that may be permitted to any answer, supplement or amendment;
(n)
502(c)(7) civil penalty proceeding
means an adjudicatory proceeding relating to the assessment of a civil penalty provided for in section 502(c)(7) of ERISA;
(o)
Respondent
means the party against whom the Department is seeking to assess a civil sanction under ERISA section 502(c)(7);
(p)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor and includes, pursuant to any delegation of authority by the Secretary, any assistant secretary (including the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security), administrator, commissioner, appellate body, board, or other official; and
(q)
Solicitor
means the Solicitor of Labor or his or her delegate.
§ 2570.132
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
For 502(c)(7) penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.3 of this title.
(a)
General.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record. All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents to be filed shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ Regional Office to which the proceeding may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions, petitions, pleadings, briefs, or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy, including any attachments, to all other parties of record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing a copy to the last known address. The Department shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA section 502(c)(7) Proceeding, P.O. Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions and all other documents shall be made by regular mail to the last known address.
(d)
Form of pleadings.
(1) Every pleading shall contain information indicating the name of the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss, etc.). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they should be typewritten when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
§ 2570.133
Parties, how designated.
For 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.10 of this title.
(a) The term “party” wherever used in this subpart shall include any natural person, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, firm, partnership, trustee, receiver, agency, public or private organization, or government agency. A party against whom a civil penalty is sought shall be designated as “respondent.” The Department shall be designated as the “complainant.”
(b) Other persons or organizations shall be permitted to participate as parties only if the administrative law judge finds that the final decision could directly and adversely affect them or the class they represent, that
they may contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings and their interest is not adequately represented by existing parties, and that in the discretion of the administrative law judge the participation of such persons or organizations would be appropriate.
(c) A person or organization not named as a respondent wishing to participate as a party under this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within fifteen (15) days after the person or organization has knowledge of or should have known about the proceeding. The petition shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on each person who or organization that has been made a party at the time of filing. Such petition shall concisely state:
(1) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;
(2) How his or her participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the proceeding;
(3) Who will appear for petitioner;
(4) The issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(5) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(d) Objections to the petition may be filed by a party within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the petition. If objections to the petition are filed, the administrative law judge shall then determine whether petitioner has the requisite interest to be a party in the proceedings, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the administrative law judge may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or he or she may recognize one or more of such petitioners. The administrative law judge shall give each such petitioner, as well as the parties, written notice of the decision on his or her petition. For each petition granted, the administrative law judge shall provide a brief statement of the basis of the decision. If the petition is denied, he or she shall briefly state the grounds for denial and shall then treat the petition as a request for participation as
amicus curiae.
§ 2570.134
Consequences of default.
For 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.5(a) and (b) of this title. Failure of the respondent to file an answer to the notice of determination described in § 2560.502c-7(g) of this chapter within the 30 day period provided by § 2560.502c-7(h) of this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice of determination, and such failure shall be deemed to be an admission of the facts as alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(7) of the Act. Such notice shall then become the final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.131(g) of this subpart, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
§ 2570.135
Consent order or settlement.
For 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings, the following shall apply in lieu of § 18.9 of this title.
(a)
General.
At any time after the commencement of a proceeding, but at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time to permit negotiation of a settlement or an agreement containing findings and an order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such a deferral and the duration thereof shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge, after consideration of such factors as the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties, and the probability of reaching an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issues involved.
(b)
Content.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which any order may be based shall consist solely of the notice and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge;
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the order and decision entered into in accordance with the agreement; and
(5) That the order and decision of the administrative law judge shall be final agency action.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, but, in any case, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties or their authorized representative or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order to the administrative law judge; or
(2) Notify the administrative law judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action subject to compliance with the terms of the settlement; or
(3) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
In the event a settlement agreement containing consent findings and an order is submitted within the time allowed therefor, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision incorporating such findings and agreement within 30 days of his receipt of such document. The decision of the administrative law judge shall incorporate all of the findings, terms, and conditions of the settlement agreement and consent order of the parties. Such decision shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(e)
Settlement without consent of all parties.
In cases in which some, but not all, of the parties to a proceeding submit a consent agreement to the administrative law judge, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) If all of the parties have not consented to the proposed settlement submitted to the administrative law judge, then such non-consenting parties must receive notice, and a copy, of the proposed settlement at the time it is submitted to the administrative law judge;
(2) Any non-consenting party shall have fifteen (15) days to file any objections to the proposed settlement with the administrative law judge and all other parties;
(3) If any party submits an objection to the proposed settlement, the administrative law judge shall decide within 30 days after receipt of such objections whether he shall sign or reject the proposed settlement. Where the record lacks substantial evidence upon which to base a decision or there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the administrative law judge may establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence upon which a decision on the contested issues may reasonably be based;
(4) If there are no objections to the proposed settlement, or if the administrative law judge decides to sign the proposed settlement after reviewing any such objections, the administrative law judge shall incorporate the consent agreement into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 2570.136
Scope of discovery.
For 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.14 of this title.
(a) A party may file a motion to conduct discovery with the administrative law judge. The motion for discovery shall be granted by the administrative law judge only upon a showing of good cause. In order to establish “good cause” for the purposes of this section, a party must show that the discovery requested relates to a genuine issue as to a material fact that is relevant to the proceeding. The order of the administrative law judge shall expressly limit the scope and terms of discovery to that for which “good cause” has been shown, as provided in this paragraph.
(b) A party may obtain discovery of documents and tangible things otherwise discoverable under paragraph (a) of this section and prepared in anticipation of or for the hearing by or for another party's representative (including his or her attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent) only upon showing that the party seeking discovery has substantial need of the materials or information in the preparation of his or her case and that
he or she is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials or information by other means. In ordering discovery of such materials when the required showing has been made, the administrative law judge shall protect against disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representatives of a party concerning the proceeding.
§ 2570.137
Summary decision.
For 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.41 of this title.
(a)
No genuine issue of material fact.
(1) Where no issue of a material fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge may issue a decision which, in the absence of an appeal pursuant to §§ 2570.139 through 2570.141 of this subpart, shall become a final order.
(2) A decision made under paragraph (a) of this section shall include a statement of:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons therefor, on all issues presented; and
(ii) Any terms and conditions of the rule or order.
(3) A copy of any decision under this paragraph shall be served on each party.
(b)
Hearings on issues of fact.
Where a genuine question of a material fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing.
§ 2570.138
Decision of the administrative law judge.
For 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.57 of this title.
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony, or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision of the administrative law judge.
Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within thirty (30) days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the administrative law judge shall make his or her decision. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law with reasons therefor upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record. In a contested case in which the Department and the Respondent have presented their positions to the administrative law judge pursuant to the procedures for 502(c)(7) civil penalty proceedings as set forth in this subpart, the penalty (if any) which may be included in the decision of the administrative law judge shall be limited to the penalty expressly provided for in section 502(c)(7) of ERISA. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 unless an appeal is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 2570.139 through 2570.141 of this subpart.
§ 2570.139
Review by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may review a decision of an administrative law judge. Such a review may occur only when a party files a notice of appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge within twenty (20) days of the issuance of such decision. In all other cases, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A notice of appeal to the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the decision of the administrative law judge on which the party is seeking review. Such notice of appeal must be served on all parties of record.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to submit
to him or her a copy of the entire record before the administrative law judge.
§ 2570.140
Scope of review.
The review of the Secretary shall not be a de novo proceeding but rather a review of the record established before the administrative law judge. There shall be no opportunity for oral argument.
§ 2570.141
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
(a) Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Secretary shall establish a briefing schedule which shall be served on all parties of record. Upon motion of one or more of the parties, the Secretary may, in his or her discretion, permit the submission of reply briefs.
(b) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible after receipt of the briefs of the parties. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision on appeal and shall issue a statement of reasons and bases for the action(s) taken. Such decision by the Secretary shall be final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart H—Procedures for Issuance of Findings Under ERISA Sec. 3(40)

# Source:
68 FR 17489, Apr. 9, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.150
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this subpart H apply to “section 3(40) Finding Proceedings” (as defined in § 2570.152(g)), under section 3(40) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or the Act). Refer to 29 CFR 2510.3-40 for the definition of relevant terms of section 3(40) of ERISA, 29 U.S.C. 1002(40). To the extent that the regulations in this subpart differ from the regulations in subpart A of 29 CFR part 18, the regulations in this subpart apply to matters arising under section 3(40) of ERISA rather than the rules of procedure for administrative hearings published by the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges in subpart A of 29 CFR part 18. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2570.151
In general.
If there is an attempt to assert state jurisdiction or the application of state law, either by the issuance of a state administrative or court subpoena to, or the initiation of administrative or judicial proceedings against, a plan or other arrangement that alleges it is covered by title I of ERISA, 29 U.S.C. 1003, the plan or other arrangement may petition the Secretary to make a finding under section 3(40)(A)(i) of ERISA that it is a plan established or maintained under or pursuant to an agreement or agreements that the Secretary finds to be collective bargaining agreements for purposes of section 3(40) of ERISA.
§ 2570.152
Definitions.
For section 3(40) Finding Proceedings, this section shall apply instead of the definitions in 29 CFR 18.2.
(a)
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
et seq.,
29 U.S.C. 1001,
et seq.,
as amended.
(b)
Order
means the whole or part of a final procedural or substantive disposition by the administrative law judge of a matter under section 3(40) of ERISA. No order will be appealable to the Secretary except as provided in this subpart.
(c)
Petition
means a written request under the procedures in this subpart for a finding by the Secretary under section 3(40) of ERISA that a plan is established or maintained under or pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements.
(d)
Petitioner
means the plan or arrangement filing a petition.
(e)
Respondent
means:
(1) A state government instrumentality charged with enforcing the law that is alleged to apply or which has been identified as asserting jurisdiction over a plan or other arrangement, including any agency, commission,
board, or committee charged with investigating and enforcing state insurance laws, including parties joined under § 2570.153;
(2) The person or entity asserting that state law or state jurisdiction applies to the petitioner;
(3) The Secretary of Labor; and
(4) A state not named in the petition that has intervened under § 2570.153(b).
(f)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor, and includes, pursuant to any delegation or sub-delegation of authority, the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security or other employee of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
(g)
Section 3(40) Finding Proceeding
means a proceeding before the Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) relating to whether the Secretary finds an entity to be a plan to be established or maintained under or pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements within the meaning of section 3(40) of ERISA.
§ 2570.153
Parties.
For section 3(40) Finding Proceedings, this section shall apply instead of 29 CFR 18.10.
(a) The term “party” with respect to a Section 3(40) Finding Proceeding means the petitioner and the respondents.
(b) States not named in the petition may participate as parties in a Section 3(40) Finding Proceeding by notifying the OALJ and the other parties in writing prior to the date for filing a response to the petition. After the date for service of responses to the petition, a state not named in the petition may intervene as a party only with the consent of all parties or as otherwise ordered by the ALJ.
(c) The Secretary of Labor shall be named as a “respondent” to all actions.
(d) The failure of any party to comply with any order of the ALJ may, at the discretion of the ALJ, result in the denial of the opportunity to present evidence in the proceeding.
§ 2570.154
Filing and contents of petition.
(a) A person seeking a finding under section 3(40) of ERISA must file a written petition by delivering or mailing it to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ), 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or by making a filing by any electronic means permitted under procedures established by the OALJ.
(b) The petition shall—
(1) Provide the name and address of the entity for which the petition is filed;
(2) Provide the names and addresses of the plan administrator and plan sponsor(s) of the plan or other arrangement for which the finding is sought;
(3) Identify the state or states whose law or jurisdiction the petitioner claims has been asserted over the petitioner, and provide the addresses and names of responsible officials;
(4) Include affidavits or other written evidence showing that:
(i) State jurisdiction has been asserted over or legal process commenced against the petitioner pursuant to state law;
(ii) The petitioner is an employee welfare benefit plan as defined at section 3(1) of ERISA (29 U.S.C. 1002(1)) and 29 CFR 2510.3-1 and is covered by title I of ERISA (
see
29 U.S.C. 1003);
(iii) The petitioner is established or maintained for the purpose of offering or providing benefits described in section 3(1) of ERISA (29 U.S.C. 1002(1)) to employees of two or more employers (including one or more self-employed individuals) or their beneficiaries;
(iv) The petitioner satisfies the criteria in 29 CFR 2510.3-40(b); and
(v) Service has been made as provided in § 2570.155.
(5) The affidavits shall set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence in a proceeding under 29 CFR part 18 and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein. The affidavit or other written evidence must set forth specific facts showing the factors required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
§ 2570.155
Service.
For section 3(40) proceedings, this section shall apply instead of 29 CFR 18.3.
(a)
In general.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record.
All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents to be filed shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ), 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ Regional Office to which the proceeding may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions, petitions, pleadings, briefs, or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy, including any attachments, to all other parties of record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing by first class, prepaid U.S. mail, a copy to the last known address. The Secretary shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA Section 3(40) Proceeding, PO Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions and all other documents shall be made to all parties of record by regular mail to their last known address.
(d)
Form of pleadings
(1) Every pleading shall contain information indicating the name of the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the OALJ and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss, etc.). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they should be typewritten when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopies, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
§ 2570.156
Expedited proceedings.
For section 3(40) Finding Proceedings, this section shall apply instead of 29 CFR 18.42.
(a) At any time after commencement of a proceeding, any party may move to advance the scheduling of a proceeding, including the time for conducting discovery.
(b) Except when such proceedings are directed by the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned, any party filing a motion under this section shall:
(1) Make the motion in writing;
(2) Describe the circumstances justifying advancement;
(3) Describe the irreparable harm that would result if the motion is not granted; and
(4) Incorporate in the motion affidavits to support any representations of fact.
(c) Service of a motion under this section shall be accomplished by personal delivery, or by facsimile, followed by first class, prepaid, U.S. mail. Service is complete upon personal delivery or mailing.
(d) Except when such proceedings are required, or unless otherwise directed by the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned, all parties to the proceeding in which the motion is filed shall have ten (10) days from the date of service of the motion to file an opposition in response to the motion.
(e) Following the timely receipt by the administrative law judge of statements in response to the motion, the administrative law judge may advance pleading schedules, discovery schedules, prehearing conferences, and the hearing, as deemed appropriate; provided, however, that a hearing on the merits shall not be scheduled with less than five (5) working days notice to the parties, unless all parties consent to an earlier hearing.
(f) When an expedited hearing is held, the decision of the administrative law judge shall be issued within twenty (20) days after receipt of the transcript of any oral hearing or within twenty (20) days after the filing of all documentary evidence if no oral hearing is conducted.
§ 2570.157
Allocation of burden of proof.
For purposes of a final decision under § 2570.158 (Decision of the Administrative Law Judge) or § 2570.159 (Review by the Secretary), the petitioner shall have the burden of proof as to whether it meets 29 CFR 2510.3-40.
§ 2570.158
Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
For section 3(40) finding proceedings, this section shall apply instead of 29 CFR 18.57.
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of filing the transcript of the testimony, or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion under 29 CFR 18.55, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order together with the supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and brief shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision based on oral argument in lieu of briefs.
In any case in which the administrative law judge believes that written briefs or proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law may not be necessary, the administrative law judge shall notify the parties at the opening of the hearing or as soon thereafter as is practicable that he or she may wish to hear oral argument in lieu of briefs. The administrative law judge shall issue his or her decision at the close of oral argument, or within 30 days thereafter.
(c)
Decision of the administrative law judge.
Within 30 days, or as soon as possible thereafter, after the time allowed for the filing of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within thirty (30) days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the administrative law judge shall make his or her decision. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with reasons therefore, upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. Such decision shall be in accordance with the regulations found at 29 CFR 2510.3-40 and shall be limited to whether the petitioner, based on the facts presented at the time of the proceeding, is a plan established or maintained under or pursuant to collective bargaining for the purposes of section 3(40) of ERISA.
§ 2570.159
Review by the Secretary.
(a) A request for review by the Secretary of an appealable decision of the administrative law judge may be made by any party. Such a request must be filed within 20 days of the issuance of the final decision or the final decision of the administrative law judge will become the final agency order for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
(b) A request for review by the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the administrative law judge's final decision upon which review is sought. The request shall be served on all parties to the proceeding.
(c) The review by the Secretary shall not be a de novo proceeding but rather a review of the record established by the administrative law judge.
(d) The Secretary may, in his or her discretion, allow the submission of supplemental briefs by the parties to the proceeding.
(e) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible, affirming, modifying, or setting aside, in whole or in part, the decision under review, and shall set forth a brief statement of reasons therefor. Such decision by the Secretary shall be the final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart I—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Section 502(c)(8)

# Source:
75 FR 8801, Feb. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2570.160
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this subpart are applicable to “502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings” (as defined
in § 2570.161(n) of this subpart) under section 502(c)(8) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act). The rules of procedure for administrative hearings published by the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges at Part 18 of this title will apply to matters arising under ERISA section 502(c)(8) except as modified by this subpart. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2570.161
Definitions.
For 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of the definitions in § 18.2 of this title:
(a)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding before an administrative law judge leading to the formulation of a final order;
(b)
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105;
(c)
Answer
means a written statement that is supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the notice of determination issued pursuant to § 2560.502c-8(g) of this chapter;
(d)
Commencement of proceeding
is the filing of an answer by the respondent;
(e)
Consent agreement
means any written document containing a specified proposed remedy or other relief acceptable to the Department and consenting parties;
(f)
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(g)
Final order
means the final decision or action of the Department of Labor concerning the assessment of a civil penalty under ERISA section 502(c)(8) against a particular party. Such final order may result from a decision of an administrative law judge or the Secretary, the failure of a party to file a statement of reasonable cause described in § 2560.502c-8(e) of this chapter within the prescribed time limits, or the failure of a party to invoke the procedures for hearings or appeals under this title within the prescribed time limits. Such a final order shall constitute final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704;
(h)
Hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, by either oral presentation or written submission, to the administrative law judge;
(i)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a matter under ERISA section 502(c)(8);
(j)
Party
includes a person or agency named or admitted as a party to a proceeding;
(k)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, exchange or other entity or organization;
(l)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person or party, for some affirmative action;
(m)
Pleading
means the notice as defined in § 2560.502c-8(g) of this chapter, the answer to the notice, any supplement or amendment thereto, and any reply that may be permitted to any answer, supplement or amendment;
(n)
502(c)(8) civil penalty proceeding
means an adjudicatory proceeding relating to the assessment of a civil penalty provided for in section 502(c)(8) of ERISA;
(o)
Respondent
means the party against whom the Department is seeking to assess a civil sanction under ERISA section 502(c)(8);
(p)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor and includes, pursuant to any delegation of authority by the Secretary, any assistant secretary (including the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security), administrator, commissioner, appellate body, board, or other official; and
(q)
Solicitor
means the Solicitor of Labor or his or her delegate.
§ 2570.162
Service: Copies of documents and pleadings.
For 502(c)(8) penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.3 of this title.
(a)
General.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record. All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents to be filed shall be delivered or mailed to
the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ Regional Office to which the proceeding may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions, petitions, pleadings, briefs, or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy, including any attachments, to all other parties of record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing a copy to the last known address. The Department shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA section 502(c)(8) Proceeding, P.O. Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions and all other documents shall be made by regular mail to the last known address.
(d)
Form of pleadings.
(1) Every pleading shall contain information indicating the name of the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss,
etc.
). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they should be typewritten when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11-inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
§ 2570.163
Parties, how designated.
For 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.10 of this title.
(a) The term “party” wherever used in this subpart shall include any natural person, corporation, employee benefit plan, association, firm, partnership, trustee, receiver, agency, public or private organization, or government agency. A party against whom a civil penalty is sought shall be designated as “respondent.” The Department shall be designated as the “complainant.”
(b) Other persons or organizations shall be permitted to participate as parties only if the administrative law judge finds that the final decision could directly and adversely affect them or the class they represent, that they may contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings and their interest is not adequately represented by existing parties, and that in the discretion of the administrative law judge the participation of such persons or organizations would be appropriate.
(c) A person or organization not named as a respondent wishing to participate as a party under this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within fifteen (15) days after the person or organization has knowledge of or should have known about the proceeding. The petition shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on each person who or organization that has been made a party at the time of filing. Such petition shall concisely state:
(1) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;
(2) How his or her participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the proceeding;
(3) Who will appear for petitioner;
(4) The issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(5) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(d) Objections to the petition may be filed by a party within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the petition. If objections to the petition are filed, the administrative law judge shall then determine whether petitioner has the requisite interest to be a party in the proceedings, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the administrative
law judge may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or he or she may recognize one or more of such petitioners. The administrative law judge shall give each such petitioner, as well as the parties, written notice of the decision on his or her petition. For each petition granted, the administrative law judge shall provide a brief statement of the basis of the decision. If the petition is denied, he or she shall briefly state the grounds for denial and shall then treat the petition as a request for participation as
amicus curiae.
§ 2570.164
Consequences of default.
For 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.5(a) and (b) of this title. Failure of the respondent to file an answer to the notice of determination described in § 2560.502c-8(g) of this chapter within the 30 day period provided by § 2560.502c-8(h) of this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice of determination, and such failure shall be deemed to be an admission of the facts as alleged in the notice for purposes of any proceeding involving the assessment of a civil penalty under section 502(c)(8) of the Act. Such notice shall then become the final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of § 2570.161(g) of this subpart, forty-five (45) days from the date of service of the notice.
§ 2570.165
Consent order or settlement.
For 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings, the following shall apply in lieu of § 18.9 of this title.
(a)
General.
At any time after the commencement of a proceeding, but at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time to permit negotiation of a settlement or an agreement containing findings and an order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such a deferral and the duration thereof shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge, after consideration of such factors as the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties, and the probability of reaching an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issues involved.
(b)
Content.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which any order may be based shall consist solely of the notice and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge;
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the order and decision entered into in accordance with the agreement; and
(5) That the order and decision of the administrative law judge shall be final agency action.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, but, in any case, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, the parties or their authorized representative or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order to the administrative law judge; or
(2) Notify the administrative law judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action subject to compliance with the terms of the settlement; or
(3) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
In the event a settlement agreement containing consent findings and an order is submitted within the time allowed therefor, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision incorporating such findings and agreement within 30 days of his receipt of such document. The decision of the administrative law judge shall incorporate all of the findings, terms, and conditions of the settlement agreement and consent order of the parties. Such decision shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(e)
Settlement without consent of all parties.
In cases in which some, but not all, of the parties to a proceeding submit a consent agreement to the administrative law judge, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) If all of the parties have not consented to the proposed settlement submitted to the administrative law judge, then such non-consenting parties must receive notice, and a copy, of the proposed settlement at the time it is submitted to the administrative law judge;
(2) Any non-consenting party shall have fifteen (15) days to file any objections to the proposed settlement with the administrative law judge and all other parties;
(3) If any party submits an objection to the proposed settlement, the administrative law judge shall decide within 30 days after receipt of such objections whether he shall sign or reject the proposed settlement. Where the record lacks substantial evidence upon which to base a decision or there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the administrative law judge may establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence upon which a decision on the contested issues may reasonably be based;
(4) If there are no objections to the proposed settlement, or if the administrative law judge decides to sign the proposed settlement after reviewing any such objections, the administrative law judge shall incorporate the consent agreement into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 2570.166
Scope of discovery.
For 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.14 of this title.
(a) A party may file a motion to conduct discovery with the administrative law judge. The motion for discovery shall be granted by the administrative law judge only upon a showing of good cause. In order to establish “good cause” for the purposes of this section, a party must show that the discovery requested relates to a genuine issue as to a material fact that is relevant to the proceeding. The order of the administrative law judge shall expressly limit the scope and terms of discovery to that for which “good cause” has been shown, as provided in this paragraph.
(b) A party may obtain discovery of documents and tangible things otherwise discoverable under paragraph (a) of this section and prepared in anticipation of or for the hearing by or for another party's representative (including his or her attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent) only upon showing that the party seeking discovery has substantial need of the materials or information in the preparation of his or her case and that he or she is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials or information by other means. In ordering discovery of such materials when the required showing has been made, the administrative law judge shall protect against disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representatives of a party concerning the proceeding.
§ 2570.167
Summary decision.
For 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.41 of this title.
(a)
No genuine issue of material fact.
(1) Where no issue of a material fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge may issue a decision which, in the absence of an appeal pursuant to §§ 2570.169 through 2570.171 of this subpart, shall become a final order.
(2) A decision made under paragraph (a) of this section shall include a statement of:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons therefor, on all issues presented; and
(ii) Any terms and conditions of the rule or order.
(3) A copy of any decision under this paragraph shall be served on each party.
(b)
Hearings on issues of fact.
Where a genuine question of a material fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing.
§ 2570.168
Decision of the administrative law judge.
For 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.57 of this title.
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony, or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision of the administrative law judge.
Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within thirty (30) days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the administrative law judge shall make his or her decision. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law with reasons therefor upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record. In a contested case in which the Department and the Respondent have presented their positions to the administrative law judge pursuant to the procedures for 502(c)(8) civil penalty proceedings as set forth in this subpart, the penalty (if any) which may be included in the decision of the administrative law judge shall be limited to the penalty expressly provided for in section 502(c)(8) of ERISA. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 unless an appeal is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 2570.169 through 2570.171 of this subpart.
§ 2570.169
Review by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may review a decision of an administrative law judge. Such a review may occur only when a party files a notice of appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge within twenty (20) days of the issuance of such decision. In all other cases, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A notice of appeal to the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the decision of the administrative law judge on which the party is seeking review. Such notice of appeal must be served on all parties of record.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to submit to him or her a copy of the entire record before the administrative law judge.
§ 2570.170
Scope of review.
The review of the Secretary shall not be a de novo proceeding but rather a review of the record established before the administrative law judge. There shall be no opportunity for oral argument.
§ 2570.171
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
(a) Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Secretary shall establish a briefing schedule which shall be served on all parties of record. Upon motion of one or more of the parties, the Secretary may, in his or her discretion, permit the submission of reply briefs.
(b) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible after receipt of the briefs of the parties. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision on appeal and shall issue a statement of reasons and bases for the action(s) taken. Such decision by the Secretary shall be final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
Pt. 2571

# PART 2571—PROCEDURAL REGULATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT

# Subpart A—Procedures for Administrative Hearings on the Issuance of Cease and Desist Orders Under ERISA Section 521—Multiple Employer Welfare Arrangements
Sec.
2571.1
Scope of rules.
2571.2
Definitions.
2571.3
Service: copies of documents and pleadings.
2571.4
Parties.
2571.5
Consequences of default.
2571.6
Consent order or settlement.
2571.7
Scope of discovery.
2571.8
Summary decision.
2571.9
Decision of the administrative law judge.
2571.10
Review by the Secretary.
2571.11
Scope of review by the Secretary.
2571.12
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
2571.13
Effective date.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 1002(40), 1132, 1135; and 1151, Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2011, 77 FR 1088 (January 9, 2012).

# Source:
78 FR 13808, Mar. 1, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Procedures for Administrative Hearings on the Issuance of Cease and Desist Orders Under ERISA Section 521—Multiple Employer Welfare Arrangements
§ 2571.1
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice set forth in this part apply to ex parte cease and desist order proceedings under section 521 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). The rules of procedure for administrative hearings published by the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges at part 18 of this title will apply to matters arising under ERISA section 521 except as modified by this section. These proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible, and the parties and the Office of the Administrative Law Judges shall make every effort to avoid delay at each stage of the proceedings.
§ 2571.2
Definitions.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of the definitions in § 18.2 of this title:
(a)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding before an administrative law judge leading to an order;
(b)
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105;
(c)
Answer
means a written statement that is supported by reference to specific circumstances or facts surrounding the temporary order issued pursuant to 29 CFR 2560.521-1(c);
(d)
Commencement of proceeding
is the filing of an answer by the respondent;
(e)
Consent agreement
means a proposed written agreement and order containing a specified proposed remedy or other relief acceptable to the Secretary and consenting parties;
(f)
Final order
means a cease and desist order that is a final order of the Secretary of Labor under ERISA section 521. Such final order may result from a decision of an administrative law judge or of the Secretary on review of a decision of an administrative law judge, or from the failure of a party to invoke the procedures for a hearing under 29 CFR 2560.521-1 within the prescribed time limit. A final order shall constitute a final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704;
(g)
Hearing
means that part of a section 521 proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, to the administrative law judge;
(h)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a section 521 proceeding;
(i)
Party
includes a person or agency named or admitted as a party to a section 521 proceeding;
(j)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, employee welfare benefit plan, association, or other entity or organization;
(k)
Petition
means a written request, made by a person or party, for some affirmative action;
(l)
Respondent
means the party against whom the Secretary is seeking to impose a cease and desist order under ERISA section 521;
(m)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor or his or her delegate;
(n)
Section 521 proceeding
means an adjudicatory proceeding relating to the issuance of a temporary order under 29 CFR 2560.521-1 and section 521 of ERISA;
(o)
Solicitor
means the Solicitor of Labor or his or her delegate; and
(p)
Temporary order
means the temporary cease and desist order issued by the Secretary under 29 CFR 2560.521-1(c) and section 521 of ERISA.
§ 2571.3
Service: copies of documents and pleadings.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.3 of this title:
(a)
In general.
Copies of all documents shall be served on all parties of record. All documents should clearly designate the docket number, if any, and short title of all matters. All documents to be filed shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, 800 K Street NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002, or to the OALJ Regional Office to which the section 521 proceeding may have been transferred for hearing. Each document filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By parties.
All motions, petitions, pleadings, briefs, or other documents shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges with a copy, including any attachments, to all other parties of record. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon the attorney. Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery or by mailing a copy to the last known address. The Secretary shall be served by delivery to the Associate Solicitor, Plan Benefits Security Division, ERISA Section 521 Proceeding, P.O. Box 1914, Washington, DC 20013 and any attorney named for service of process as set forth in the temporary order. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner of date and service.
(c)
By the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Service of orders, decisions, and all other documents shall be made in such manner as the Office of Administrative Law Judges determines to the last known address.
(d)
Form of pleadings.
(1) Every pleading or other paper filed in a section 521 proceeding shall designate the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) as the agency under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if any) assigned by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., notice, motion to dismiss, etc.). The pleading or paper shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. Although there are no formal specifications for documents, they should be printed when possible on standard size 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper.
(2) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, printed, photocopies, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process provided all copies are clear and legible.
§ 2571.4
Parties.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.10 of this title:
(a) The term “party” wherever used in these rules shall include any person that is a subject of the temporary order and is challenging the temporary order under these section 521 proceedings, and the Secretary. A party challenging a temporary order shall be designated as the “respondent.” The Secretary shall be designated as the “complainant.”
(b) Other persons shall be permitted to participate as parties only if the administrative law judge finds that the final decision could directly and adversely affect them or the class they represent, that they may contribute materially to the disposition of the section 521 proceeding and their interest is not adequately represented by the existing parties, and that in the discretion of the administrative law judge the participation of such persons would be appropriate.
(c) A person not named in a temporary order, but wishing to participate as a respondent under this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within fifteen (15) days after the person has knowledge of, or should have known about, the section 521 proceeding. The petition shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on each person who has been made a party at the time of filing. Such petition shall concisely state:
(1) Petitioner's interest in the section 521 proceeding (including how the section 521 proceedings will directly and adversely affect them or the class they represent and why their interest is not adequately represented by the existing parties);
(2) How his or her participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the section 521 proceeding;
(3) Who will appear for the petitioner;
(4) The issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(5) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(d) Objections to the petition may be filed by a party within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the petition. If objections to the petition are filed, the administrative law judge shall then determine whether petitioners have the requisite interest to be a party in the section 521 proceeding, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where persons with common interest file petitions to participate as parties in a section 521 proceeding, the administrative law judge may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or the administrative law judge may designate one or more of the petitioners to represent the others. The administrative law judge shall give each such petitioner, as well as the parties, written notice of the decision on his or her petition. For each petition granted, the administrative law judge shall provide a brief statement of the basis of the decision. If the petition is denied, he or she shall briefly state the grounds for denial and may consider whether to treat the petition as a request for participation as amicus curiae.
§ 2571.5
Consequences of default.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.5(b) of this title. Failure of the respondent to file an answer to the temporary order within the 30-day period provided by 29 CFR 2560.521-1(e) shall constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the temporary order. Such failure shall also be deemed to be an admission of the facts as alleged in the temporary order for purposes of any proceeding involving the order issued under section 521 of ERISA. The temporary order shall then become the final order of the Secretary, within the meaning of 29 CFR 2571.2(f), 30 days from the date of the service of the temporary order.
§ 2571.6
Consent order or settlement.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.9 of this title:
(a)
In general.
At any time after the commencement of a section 521 proceeding, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time in order to negotiate a settlement or an agreement containing findings and a consent order disposing of the whole or any part of the section 521 proceeding. The administrative law judge shall have discretion to allow or deny such a postponement and to determine its duration. In exercising this discretion, the administrative law judge shall consider the nature of the section 521 proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties and the probability of reaching an agreement that will result in a just disposition of the issues involved.
(b)
Content.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of the section 521 proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the consent order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which the consent order is based shall consist solely of the notice and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge;
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the consent
order and decision entered into in accordance with the agreement; and
(5) That the consent order and decision of the administrative law judge shall be final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, the parties or their authorized representatives or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order to the administrative law judge;
(2) Notify the administrative law judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action subject to compliance with the terms of the settlement; or
(3) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
If a settlement agreement containing consent findings and an order, agreed to by all the parties to a section 521 proceeding, is submitted within the time allowed therefor, the administrative law judge shall incorporate all of the findings, terms, and conditions of the settlement agreement and consent order of the parties. Such decision shall become a final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(e)
Settlement without consent of all respondents.
In cases in which some, but not all, of the respondents to a section 521 proceeding submit an agreement and consent order to the administrative law judge, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) If all of the respondents have not consented to the proposed settlement submitted to the administrative law judge, then such non-consenting parties must receive notice and a copy of the proposed settlement at the time it is submitted to the administrative law judge;
(2) Any non-consenting respondent shall have fifteen (15) days to file any objections to the proposed settlement with the administrative law judge and all other parties;
(3) If any respondent submits an objection to the proposed settlement, the administrative law judge shall decide within thirty (30) days after receipt of such objections whether to sign or reject the proposed settlement. Where the record lacks substantial evidence upon which to base a decision or there is a genuine issue of material fact, then the administrative law judge may establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence upon which a decision on the contested issue may be reasonably based;
(4) If there are no objections to the proposed settlement, or if the administrative law judge decides to sign the proposed settlement after reviewing any such objections, the administrative law judge shall incorporate the consent agreement into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section; and
(5) If the consent agreement is incorporated into a decision meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, the administrative law judge shall continue the section 521 proceeding with respect to any non-consenting respondents.
§ 2571.7
Scope of discovery.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.14 of this title:
(a) A party may file a motion to conduct discovery with the administrative law judge. The administrative law judge may grant a motion for discovery only upon a showing of good cause. In order to establish “good cause” for the purposes of this section, the moving party must show that the requested discovery relates to a genuine issue as to a fact that is material to the section 521 proceeding. The order of the administrative law judge shall expressly limit the scope and terms of the discovery to that for which “good cause” has been shown, as provided in this paragraph.
(b) Any evidentiary privileges apply as they would apply in a civil proceeding in federal district court. For example, legal advice provided by an attorney to a client is generally protected from disclosure. Mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of a party's attorney or other representative developed in anticipation of litigation are also generally protected from disclosure. The administrative law judge may not, however, protect from discovery or use, relevant
communications between an attorney and a plan administrator or other plan fiduciary, or work product, that fall under the fiduciary exception to the attorney-client or work product privileges. The fiduciary exception to these privileges exists when an attorney advises the plan administrator or other plan fiduciary on matters concerning plan administration or other fiduciary activities. Consequently, the administrative law judge may not protect such communications from discovery or from use by the Secretary in the proceedings. The administrative law judge also may also not protect attorney work product prepared to assist the fiduciary in its fiduciary capacity from discovery or from use by the Secretary in the proceedings. The fiduciary exception does not apply, however, to the extent that communications were made or documents were prepared exclusively to aid the fiduciary personally or for non-fiduciary matters (e.g. settlor acts), provided that the plan did not pay for the legal services. The Secretary need not make a special showing, such as good cause, merely to obtain information or documents covered by the fiduciary exception. Other relevant exceptions to the attorney-client or work product privileges shall also apply.
§ 2571.8
Summary decision.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.41 of this title:
(a)
No genuine issue of material fact.
Where the administrative law judge finds that no issue of a material fact has been raised, he or she may issue a decision which, in the absence of an appeal, pursuant to §§ 2571.10 through 2571.12, shall become a final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A decision made under this section, shall include a statement of:
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons thereof, on all issues presented; and
(2) Any terms and conditions of the ruling.
(c) A copy of any decision under this section shall be served on each party.
§ 2571.9
Decision of the administrative law judge.
For section 521 proceedings, this section shall apply in lieu of § 18.57 of this title:
(a)
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony, or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge, subject to the judge's discretion, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision of the administrative law judge.
The administrative law judge shall make his or her decision expeditiously after the conclusion of the section 521 proceeding. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law with reasons therefore upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based upon the whole record and shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The decision of the administrative law judge shall become final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 unless an appeal is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 2571.10 through 2571.12.
§ 2571.10
Review by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may review the decision of an administrative law judge. Such review may occur only when a party files a notice of appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge within twenty (20) days of the issuance of such a decision. In all other cases, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become the final agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
(b) A notice of appeal to the Secretary shall state with specificity the issue(s) in the decision of the administrative law judge on which the party is seeking review. Such notice of appeal must be served on all parties of record.
(c) Upon receipt of an appeal, the Secretary shall request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to submit to the Secretary a copy of the entire record before the administrative law judge.
§ 2571.11
Scope of review by the Secretary.
The review of the Secretary shall be based on the record established before the administrative law judge. There shall be no opportunity for oral argument.
§ 2571.12
Procedures for review by the Secretary.
(a) Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Secretary shall establish a briefing schedule which shall be served on all parties of record. Upon motion of one or more of the parties, the Secretary may, in her discretion, permit the submission of reply briefs.
(b) The Secretary shall issue a decision as promptly as possible after receipt of the briefs of the parties. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision on appeal and shall issue a statement of reasons and bases for the action(s) taken. Such decision by the Secretary shall be the final agency action with the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.
§ 2571.13
Effective date.
This regulation is effective with respect to all cease and desist orders issued by the Secretary under section 521 of ERISA at any time after April 1, 2013.
Subpart B [Reserved]
Pt. 2575

# PART 2575—ADJUSTMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES UNDER ERISA TITLE I

# Subpart A—Adjustment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Title I
Sec.
2575.1
In general.
2575.2
Catch-up adjustments to civil monetary penalties.
2575.3
Subsequent adjustments to civil monetary penalties.
2575.502c-1
Adjusted civil penalty under section 502(c)(1).
2575.502c-3
Adjusted civil penalty under section 502(c)(3).
Subparts B-D [Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 1135; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2003, 68 FR 5374 (Feb. 3, 2003).

# Source:
64 FR 42246, Aug. 3, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Adjustment of Civil Penalties Under ERISA Title I

# Authority:
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note), as amended by section 31001(s) of Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321-373, and section 701 of Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 584; 29 U.S.C 1059(b), 1132(c), 1135 and 1185d; and Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2011, 77 FR 1088 (January 9, 2012).

# Source:
62 FR 40699, July 29, 1997, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 64 FR 42246, Aug. 3, 1999.
§ 2575.1
In general.
In accordance with the requirements of the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, Pub. L. 104-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by the section 31001(s) of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-34, 110 Stat. 1321-373, and section 701 of the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 584, (collectively the Inflation Adjustment Act), the applicable civil monetary penalties of title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Labor (Department) and listed in 29 CFR 2575.2 are adjusted as set forth in this subpart, effective as of the relevant dates specified in § 2575.2.
[81 FR 43454, July 1, 2016]
§ 2575.2
Catch-up adjustments to civil monetary penalties.
The civil monetary penalties set forth in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this section are adjusted for inflation as required by section 4(b)(1) of the Inflation Adjustment Act and 29 CFR 2575.1 as follows:
(a) The civil monetary penalty of $10 for each employee established by section 209(b) of ERISA, is adjusted to $11 for violations occurring after July 29,
1997, for which a penalty is assessed before August 1, 2016 and to $28 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(b) The civil monetary penalty of up to $1,000 established by Section 502(c)(2) of ERISA is adjusted to $1,100 for violations occurring after July 29, 1997, for which a penalty is assessed before August 1, 2016, and to $2,063 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(c) The civil monetary penalty of up to $1,000 established by section 502(c)(4) of ERISA is adjusted to $1,632 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(d) The civil monetary penalty of up to $1,000 established by Section 502(c)(5) of ERISA is adjusted to $1,100 for violations occurring after March 24, 2003, for which a penalty is assessed before August 1, 2016, and to $1,502 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(e) The civil monetary penalty of up to $100 not to exceed $1,000 per request, established by section 502(c)(6) of ERISA, is adjusted to $110 not to exceed $1,100 per request for violations occurring after March 24, 2003, for which a penalty is assessed before August 1, 2016, and to $147 not to exceed $1,472 per request for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(f) The civil monetary penalty of up to $100 established by section 502(c)(7) of ERISA is adjusted to $131 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(g) The civil monetary penalty of up to $1,100 established by section 502(c)(8) of ERISA is adjusted to $1,296 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(h) The civil monetary penalty of up to $100 established by section 502(c)(9)(A) of ERISA is adjusted to $110 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(i) The civil monetary penalty of up to $100 established by section 502(c)(9)(B) of ERISA is adjusted to $110 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(j) The civil monetary penalties established by section 502(c)(10) of ERISA are adjusted in accordance with paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) The $100 civil monetary penalty of section 502(c)(10)(B)(i) of ERISA is adjusted to $110 to for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3;
(2) The $2,500 minimum civil monetary penalty of section 502(c)(10)(C)(i) of ERISA for de minimis uncorrected violations is adjusted to $2,745 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3;
(3) The $15,000 minimum civil monetary penalty of section 502(c)(10)(C)(ii) of ERISA for uncorrected violations that are not de minimis is adjusted to $16,473 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3; and
(4) The $500,000 maximum civil monetary penalty for unintentional failures
set in Section 502 (c)(10)(D)(iii)(II) of ERISA is adjusted to $549,095, for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(k) The civil monetary penalty of up to $100 established by section 502(c)(12) of ERISA remains at $100 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(l) The maximum civil monetary penalty of $10,000 established by section 502(m) of ERISA is adjusted to $15,909 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
(m) The civil monetary penalty of not more than $1,000, established by Public Health Services Act section 2715(f) and incorporated into ERISA by section 715 of ERISA, is adjusted to $1,087 for penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, and before the effective date of the next adjustment for inflation made by the Secretary in accordance with the Inflation Adjustment Act and § 2575.3.
[81 FR 43454, July 1, 2016]
§ 2575.3
Subsequent adjustments to civil monetary penalties.
No later than January 15, starting in 2017, and each subsequent year, the Secretary shall adjust for inflation, as required by the Inflation Adjustment Act, the civil monetary penalties described in § 2575.2 for violations occurring on or after November 2, 2015, and any future civil monetary penalties enforceable by the Secretary under title I of ERISA. The Secretary shall publish such annual adjustments in the
Federal Register
notwithstanding section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act. Future penalties or adjustments to the amount of the penalty that are enacted by statute or regulation (other than an adjustment for inflation under the Inflation Adjustment Act) will not be adjusted for inflation in the first year those penalty levels take effect. Annual inflation adjustments shall apply to penalties assessed after the date notice of the annual inflation adjustment is published in the
Federal Register
.
[82 FR 5383, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 2575.502c-1
Adjusted civil penalty under section 502(c)(1).
In accordance with the requirements of the 1990 Act, as amended, the maximum amount of the civil monetary penalty established by section 502(c)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), is hereby increased from $100 a day to $110 a day. This adjusted penalty applies only to violations occurring after July 29, 1997.
§ 2575.502c-3
Adjusted civil penalty under section 502(c)(3).
In accordance with the requirements of the 1990 Act, as amended, the maximum amount of the civil monetary penalty established by section 502(c)(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), is hereby increased from $100 a day to $110 a day. This adjusted penalty applies only to violations occurring after July 29, 1997.
Subparts B-D [Reserved]
Pt. 2578

# PART 2578—RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ABANDONED PLANS
Sec.
2578.1
Termination of abandoned individual account plans.
Appendix A to Part 2578—Model Notice of Intent To Terminate Abandoned Plan
Appendix B to Part 2578—Model Notice of Plan Abandonment and Intent To Serve as Qualified Termination Administrator (for Plans Found Abandoned Pursuant to 29 CFR 2578.1(b))
Appendix C to Part 2578—Model Notice of Intent To Serve as Qualified Termination Administrator (for Plans Deemed Abandoned Pursuant to 29 CFR 2578.1(j)(2))
Appendix D to Part 2578—Model Notice of Plan Termination
Appendix E to Part 2578—Model Abandoned Plans Final Notice

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 1135; 1104(a); 1103(d)(1).

# Source:
71 FR 20837, Apr. 21, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2578.1
Termination of abandoned individual account plans.
(a)
General.
The purpose of this part is to establish standards for the termination and winding up of an individual account plan (as defined in section 3(34) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA or the Act)) with respect to the situations described in (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) A qualified termination administrator has determined there is no responsible plan sponsor or plan administrator within the meaning of section 3(16)(B) and (A) of the Act, respectively, to perform such acts.
(2) An order for relief under chapter 7 of title 11 of the United States Code (the United States Bankruptcy Code) has been entered with respect to the plan sponsor.
(b)
Finding of abandonment.
(1) A qualified termination administrator (as defined in paragraph (g) of this section) may find an individual account plan to be abandoned when:
(i) Either: (A) No contributions to, or distributions from, the plan have been made for a period of at least 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the date on which the determination is being made; or
(B) Other facts and circumstances (such as communications from participants and beneficiaries regarding distributions) known to the qualified termination administrator suggest that the plan is or may become abandoned by the plan sponsor; and
(ii) Following reasonable efforts to locate or communicate with the plan sponsor, the qualified termination administrator determines that the plan sponsor:
(A) No longer exists;
(B) Cannot be located; or
(C) Is unable to maintain the plan.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a qualified termination administrator may not find a plan to be abandoned if, at any time before the plan is deemed terminated pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the qualified termination administrator receives an objection from the plan sponsor regarding the finding of abandonment and proposed termination.
(3) A qualified termination administrator shall, for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, be deemed to have made a reasonable effort to locate or communicate with the plan sponsor if the qualified termination administrator sends to the last known address of the plan sponsor, and, in the case of a plan sponsor that is a corporation, to the address of the person designated as the corporation's agent for service of legal process, by a method of delivery requiring acknowledgement of receipt, the notice described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(4) If receipt of the notice described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section is not acknowledged pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the qualified termination administrator shall be deemed to have made a reasonable effort to locate or communicate with the plan sponsor if the qualified termination administrator contacts known service providers (other than itself) of the plan and requests the current address of the plan sponsor from such service providers and, if such information is provided, the qualified termination administrator sends to each such address, by a method of delivery requiring acknowledgement of receipt, the notice described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(5) The notice referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall contain the following information:
(i) The name and address of the qualified termination administrator;
(ii) The name of the plan;
(iii) The account number or other identifying information relating to the plan;
(iv) A statement that the plan may be terminated and benefits distributed pursuant to 29 CFR 2578.1 if the plan sponsor fails to contact the qualified termination administrator within 30 days;
(v) The name, address, and telephone number of the person, office, or department that the plan sponsor must contact regarding the plan;
(vi) A statement that if the plan is terminated pursuant to 29 CFR 2578.1, notice of such termination will be furnished to the U.S. Department of Labor's Employee Benefits Security Administration;
(vii) The following statement: “The U.S. Department of Labor requires that you be informed that, as a fiduciary or plan administrator or both, you may be personally liable for costs, civil penalties, excise taxes, etc. as a result of your acts or omissions with respect to this plan. The termination of this plan will not relieve you of your liability for any such costs, penalties, taxes, etc.”; and
(viii) A statement that the plan sponsor may contact the U.S. Department of Labor for more information about the federal law governing the termination and winding-up process for abandoned plans and the telephone number of the appropriate Employee Benefits Security Administration contact person.
(c)
Deemed termination.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if a qualified termination administrator finds (pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section) that an individual account plan has been abandoned, or if a plan is considered abandoned due to the entry of an order for relief under chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (pursuant to paragraph (j)(2) of this section), the plan shall be deemed to be terminated on the ninetieth (90th) day following the date of the letter from the Employee Benefits Security Administration acknowledging receipt of the notice described in paragraph (c)(3) or (j)(6) of this section.
(2) If, prior to the end of the 90-day period described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Department notifies the qualified termination administrator that it—
(i) Objects to the termination of the plan, the plan shall not be deemed terminated under paragraph (c)(1) of this section until the qualified termination administrator is notified that the Department has withdrawn its objection; or
(ii) Waives the 90-day period described in paragraph (c)(1), the plan shall be deemed terminated upon the qualified termination administrator's receipt of such notification.
(3) Following a qualified termination administrator's finding, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, that an individual account plan has been abandoned, the qualified termination administrator shall furnish to the U.S. Department of Labor in accordance with instructions published by the Department in the Abandoned Plans section of the Employee Benefits Security Administration's website a notice of plan abandonment and intent to serve as qualified termination administrator that is signed and dated by the qualified termination administrator and that includes the following information:
(i)
Qualified termination administrator information.
(A) The name, EIN, address, and telephone number of the person electing to be the qualified termination administrator, including the address, email address, and telephone number of the person signing the notice (or other contact person, if different from the person signing the notice);
(B) A statement that the person (identified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section) is a qualified termination administrator within the meaning of paragraph (g) of this section and elects to terminate and wind up the plan (identified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section) in accordance with the provisions of this section;
(ii)
Plan information.
(A) The name, address, telephone number, account number, EIN of the plan sponsor (if known), and plan number used on the Form 5500 Annual Return/Report filed for the plan with respect to which the person is electing to serve as the qualified termination administrator;
(B) The name and last known address and telephone number of the plan sponsor; and
(C) The estimated number of participants and beneficiaries with accounts in the plan;
(iii)
Findings.
A statement that the person electing to be the qualified termination administrator finds that the plan (identified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section) is abandoned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. This statement shall include an explanation of the basis for such a finding, specifically referring to the provisions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a description of the specific steps (set forth in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section) taken to locate or
communicate with the known plan sponsor, and a statement that no objection has been received from the plan sponsor;
(iv)
Plan asset information.
(A) The estimated value of the plan's assets held by the person electing to be the qualified termination administrator;
(B) The length of time plan assets have been held by the person electing to be the qualified termination administrator, if such period of time is less than 12 months;
(C) An identification of any assets with respect to which there is no readily ascertainable fair market value, as well as information, if any, concerning the value of such assets; and
(D) An identification of delinquent contributions described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section;
(v)
Service provider information.
(A) The name, address, and telephone number of known service providers (
e.g.,
record keeper, accountant, lawyer, other asset custodian(s)) to the plan; and
(B) An identification of any services considered necessary to carry out the qualified termination administrator's authority and responsibility under this section, the name of the service provider(s) that is expected to provide such services, and an itemized estimate of expenses attendant thereto expected to be paid out of plan assets by the qualified termination administrator; and
(vi)
Perjury statement.
A statement that the information being provided in the notice is true and complete based on the knowledge of the person electing to be the qualified termination administrator, and that the information is being provided by the qualified termination administrator under penalty of perjury.
(d)
Winding up the affairs of the plan.
(1) In any case where an individual account plan is deemed to be terminated pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the qualified termination administrator shall take steps as may be necessary or appropriate to wind up the affairs of the plan and distribute benefits to the plan's participants and beneficiaries.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except as provided pursuant to paragraph (j)(7) of this section (relating to Chapter 7 ERISA Plans), the qualified termination administrator shall:
(i)
Update plan records.
(A) Undertake reasonable and diligent efforts to locate and update plan records necessary to determine the benefits payable under the terms of the plan to each participant and beneficiary.
(B) For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section, a qualified termination administrator shall not have failed to make reasonable and diligent efforts to update plan records because the administrator determines in good faith that updating the records is either impossible or involves significant cost to the plan in relation to the total assets of the plan.
(ii)
Calculate benefits.
Use reasonable care in calculating the benefits payable to each participant or beneficiary based on plan records described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. A qualified termination administrator shall not have failed to use reasonable care in calculating benefits payable solely because the qualified termination administrator—
(A) Treats as forfeited an account balance that, taking into account estimated forfeitures and other assets allocable to the account, is less than the estimated share of plan expenses allocable to that account, and reallocates that account balance to defray plan expenses or to other plan accounts in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section;
(B) Allocates expenses and unallocated assets in accordance with the plan document, or, if the plan document is not available, is ambiguous, or if compliance with the plan is unfeasible,
(
1
) Allocates unallocated assets (including forfeitures and assets in a suspense account) to participant accounts on a per capita basis (allocated equally to all accounts); and
(
2
) Allocates expenses on a pro rata basis (proportionately in the ratio that each individual account balance bears to the total of all individual account balances) or on a per capita basis (allocated equally to all accounts).
(iii)
Report delinquent contributions.
(A) Notify the Department of any
known contributions (either employer or employee) owed to the plan in conjunction with the filing of the notification required in paragraphs (c)(3) or (d)(2)(ix) of this section.
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(7)(i) of this section, nothing in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section or any other provision of the Act shall be construed to impose an obligation on the qualified termination administrator to collect delinquent contributions on behalf of the plan, provided that the qualified termination administrator satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section.
(iv)
Engage service providers.
Engage, on behalf of the plan, such service providers as are necessary for the qualified termination administrator to wind up the affairs of the plan and distribute benefits to the plan's participants and beneficiaries in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(v)
Pay reasonable expenses.
(A) Pay, from plan assets, the reasonable expenses of carrying out the qualified termination administrator's authority and responsibility under this section.
(B) Expenses of plan administration shall be considered reasonable solely for purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section if:
(
1
) Such expenses are for services necessary to wind up the affairs of the plan and distribute benefits to the plan's participants and beneficiaries,
(
2
) Such expenses:
(
i
) Are consistent with industry rates for such or similar services, based on the experience of the qualified termination administrator; and
(
ii
) Are not in excess of rates ordinarily charged by the qualified termination administrator (or affiliate) for the same or similar services provided to customers that are not plans terminated pursuant to this section, if the qualified termination administrator (or affiliate) provides the same or similar services to such other customers, and
(
3
) The payment of such expenses would not constitute a prohibited transaction under the Act or is exempted from such prohibited transaction provisions pursuant to section 408(a) of the Act.
(vi)
Notify participants.
(A) Furnish to each participant or beneficiary of the plan a notice written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and containing the following:
(
1
) The name of the plan;
(
2
) A statement that the plan has been determined to be abandoned by the plan sponsor, or in the case of a Chapter 7 ERISA Plan (described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section) a statement that the plan sponsor is in liquidation under chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, and, therefore, has been terminated pursuant to regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Labor;
(
3
)(
i
) A statement of the participant's or beneficiary's account balance and the date on which it was calculated by the qualified termination administrator, and
(
ii
) The following statement: “The actual amount of your distribution may be more or less than the amount stated in this letter depending on investment gains or losses and the administrative cost of terminating your plan and distributing your benefits.”;
(
4
) A description of the distribution options available under the plan and a request that the participant or beneficiary elect a form of distribution and inform the qualified termination administrator (or designee) of that election;
(
5
) A statement explaining that, if a participant or beneficiary fails to make an election within 30 days from receipt of the notice, the qualified termination administrator will distribute the account balance of the participant or beneficiary directly:
(
i
) To an individual retirement plan (
i.e.,
individual retirement account or annuity),
(
ii
) To an inherited individual retirement plan described in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(ii) of this chapter (in the case of a distribution on behalf of a distributee other than a participant or spouse),
(
iii
) In any case where the amount to be distributed meets the conditions in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(iii) or (iv) of this chapter, to an interest-bearing federally insured bank account, the unclaimed property fund of the State of
the last known address of the participant or beneficiary, or an individual retirement plan (described in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this chapter) or
(
iv
) To an annuity provider in any case where the qualified termination administrator determines that the survivor annuity requirements in sections 401(a)(11) and 417 of the Internal Revenue Code (or section 205 of ERISA) prevent a distribution under paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(B)(
1
) of this section;
(
6
) In the case of a distribution to an individual retirement plan (described in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this chapter) a statement explaining that the account balance will be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return and liquidity;
(
7
) A statement of the fees, if any, that will be paid from the participant's or beneficiary's individual retirement plan (described in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this chapter) or other account (described in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(iii)(A) of this chapter), if such information is known at the time of the furnishing of this notice;
(
8
) The name, address and phone number of the provider of the individual retirement plan (described in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this chapter), qualified survivor annuity, or other account (described in § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(iii)(A) of this chapter), if such information is known at the time of the furnishing of this notice; and
(
9
) The name, address, and telephone number of the qualified termination administrator and, if different, the name, address and phone number of a contact person (or entity) for additional information concerning the termination and distribution of benefits under this section.
(B)(
1
) For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, a notice shall be furnished to each participant or beneficiary in accordance with the requirements of § 2520.104b-1(b)(1) of this chapter to the last known address of the participant or beneficiary; and
(
2
) In the case of a notice that is returned to the qualified termination administrator as undeliverable, the qualified termination administrator shall, consistent with the duties of a fiduciary under section 404(a)(1) of the Act, take steps to locate and provide notice to the participant or beneficiary prior to making a distribution pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(vii) of this section. If, after such steps, the qualified termination administrator is unsuccessful in locating and furnishing notice to a participant or beneficiary, the participant or beneficiary shall be deemed to have been furnished the notice and to have failed to make an election within the 30-day period described in paragraph (d)(2)(vii) of this section.
(vii)
Distribute benefits.
(A) Distribute benefits in accordance with the form of distribution elected by each participant or beneficiary with spousal consent, if required.
(B) If the participant or beneficiary fails to make an election within 30 days from the date the notice described in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section is furnished, distribute benefits—
(
1
) In accordance with § 2550.404a-3 of this chapter; or
(
2
) If a qualified termination administrator determines that the survivor annuity requirements in sections 401(a)(11) and 417 of the Internal Revenue Code (or section 205 of ERISA) prevent a distribution under paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(B)(
1
) of this section, in any manner reasonably determined to achieve compliance with those requirements.
(C) For purposes of distributions pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(B) of this section, the qualified termination administrator may designate itself (or an affiliate) as the transferee of such proceeds, and invest such proceeds in a product in which it (or an affiliate) has an interest, only if such designation and investment is exempted from the prohibited transaction provisions under the Act pursuant to section 408(a) of the Act.
(viii)
Special Terminal Report for Abandoned Plans.
File the Special Terminal Report for Abandoned Plans in accordance with § 2520.103-13 of this chapter.
(ix)
Final Notice.
No later than two months after the end of the month in which the qualified termination administrator satisfies the requirements in paragraph (d)(2)(i) through (vii) of this
section, furnish to the U.S. Department of Labor in accordance with instructions published by the Department in the Abandoned Plans section of the Employee Benefits Security Administration's website, a notice, signed and dated by the qualified termination administrator, containing the following information:
(A) The name, EIN, address, email address, and telephone number of the qualified termination administrator, including the address, email address, and telephone number of the person signing the notice (or other contact person, if different from the person signing the notice), and if applicable with respect to a Chapter 7 ERISA Plan (as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section), the name, address (including email address), and telephone number of the bankruptcy trustee if the bankruptcy trustee is not the qualified termination administrator;
(B) The name, account number, EIN, and plan number used on the Form 5500 Annual Return/Report filed for the plan with respect to which the person served as the qualified termination administrator;
(C) A statement that the plan has been terminated and all the plan's assets have been distributed to the plan's participants and beneficiaries on the basis of the best available information;
(D) A statement that plan expenses were paid out of plan assets by the qualified termination administrator in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(v) or (j)(7)(iv) of this section;
(E) If fees and expenses paid by the plan exceed by 20 percent or more the estimate required by paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) or (j)(6)(vi)(B) of this section, a statement that actual fees and expenses exceeded estimated fees and expenses and the reasons for such additional costs;
(F) An identification of delinquent contributions described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, or if applicable with respect to a Chapter 7 ERISA Plan (as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section), an identification of delinquent contributions and evidence of other fiduciary breaches described in paragraph (j)(7)(ii) of this section (if not already reported under paragraphs (c)(3) or (j)(6) of this section);
(G) For each distribution in accordance with § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(v) of this chapter (relating to distributions on behalf of deceased participants and beneficiaries), a summary of the pertinent findings as required by § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(v)(
C
) of this chapter; and
(H) A statement that the information being provided in the notice is true and complete based on the knowledge of the qualified termination administrator, and that the information is being provided by the qualified termination administrator under penalty of perjury.
(3) The terms of the plan shall, for purposes of title I of ERISA, be deemed amended to the extent necessary to allow the qualified termination administrator to wind up the plan in accordance with this section.
(e)
Limited liability.
(1)(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, to the extent that the activities enumerated in paragraphs (d)(2) and (j)(7) of this section involve the exercise of discretionary authority or control that would make the qualified termination administrator a fiduciary within the meaning of section 3(21) of the Act, the qualified termination administrator shall be deemed to satisfy its responsibilities under section 404(a) of the Act with respect to such activities, provided that the qualified termination administrator complies with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) and (j)(7) of this section as applicable.
(ii) A qualified termination administrator shall be responsible for the selection and monitoring of any service provider (other than monitoring a provider selected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(B) of this section) determined by the qualified termination administrator to be necessary to the winding up of the affairs of the plan, as well as ensuring the reasonableness of the compensation paid for such services. If a qualified termination administrator selects and monitors a service provider in accordance with the requirements of section 404(a)(1) of the Act, the qualified termination administrator shall not be liable for the acts or omissions of the service provider with
respect to which the qualified termination administrator does not have knowledge.
(iii) For purposes of a distribution pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(B)(
2
) of this section, a qualified termination administrator shall be responsible for the selection of an annuity provider in accordance with section 404 of the Act.
(2) Nothing herein shall be construed to impose an obligation on the qualified termination administrator to conduct an inquiry or review to determine whether or what breaches of fiduciary responsibility may have occurred with respect to a plan prior to becoming the qualified termination administrator for such plan.
(3) If assets of an abandoned plan are held by a person other than the qualified termination administrator, such person shall not be treated as in violation of section 404(a) of the Act solely on the basis that the person cooperated with and followed the directions of the qualified termination administrator in carrying out its responsibilities under this section with respect to such plan, provided that, in advance of any transfer or disposition of any assets at the direction of the qualified termination administrator, such person confirms with the Department of Labor that the person representing to be the qualified termination administrator with respect to the plan is the qualified termination administrator recognized by the Department of Labor.
(4) If the qualified termination administrator is an eligible designee described in § 2578.1(j)(4) of this chapter, designated by a bankruptcy trustee described in § 2578.1(j)(3) of this chapter, both the bankruptcy trustee and the eligible designee shall be treated as the qualified termination administrator for purposes of paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (e)(2) and (f) of this section. Nothing in this paragraph (e)(4) shall serve to relieve the bankruptcy trustee from its obligations under or limit its liability for a failure to comply with paragraph (j)(5).
(f)
Continued liability.
Nothing in this section shall serve to relieve or limit the liability of any person other than the qualified termination administrator due to a violation of ERISA.
(g)
Qualified termination administrator.
A termination administrator is qualified under this section only if:
(1) It is eligible to serve as a trustee or issuer of an individual retirement plan, within the meaning of section 7701(a)(37) of the Internal Revenue Code, and
(2) It holds assets of the plan that is found abandoned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(h)
Affiliate.
(1) The term affiliate means any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the person; or any officer, director, partner or employee of the person.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the term control means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual.
(i)
Model notices.
Appendices to this part contain model notices that are intended to assist qualified termination administrators in discharging the notification requirements under this section. Their use is not mandatory. However, the use of appropriately completed model notices will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b)(5), (c)(3), (d)(2)(vi), (d)(2)(ix), and (j)(6) of this section.
(j)
Special rules for Chapter 7 ERISA Plans
—(1)
In general.
This paragraph (j) contains special rules for individual account plans of sponsors in liquidation under chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 7 ERISA Plans). These special rules modify, augment, or supersede otherwise applicable provisions in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.
(2)
Deemed abandonment.
If the sponsor of an individual account plan is in liquidation under chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, the requirements of paragraph (b) do not apply, and the Chapter 7 ERISA Plan shall be considered abandoned upon the entry of an order for relief, except that the plan shall cease to be considered abandoned if at any time before the plan is deemed terminated pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the plan sponsor's chapter 7 liquidation proceeding is dismissed or converted to a
proceeding under a different chapter of the United States Bankruptcy Code.
(3)
Qualified termination administrator.
For a plan deemed abandoned under paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the definition of “qualified termination administrator” in paragraph (g) of this section does not apply and only the bankruptcy trustee in the case, or an eligible designee (as defined in paragraph (j)(4) of this section), may be the qualified termination administrator.
(4)
Eligible designee.
The term “eligible designee” means—
(i) any person or entity who accepts in writing a designation by the bankruptcy trustee and who meets the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section; or
(ii) an “ independent bankruptcy trustee practitioner.” An independent bankruptcy trustee practitioner is a person other than the bankruptcy trustee of the plan sponsor's case, who has served within the previous five years as a bankruptcy trustee in a case under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, who accepts in writing a designation by the bankruptcy trustee and who acknowledges in writing to the bankruptcy trustee that they are a fiduciary with respect to the plan.
(5)
Rules and conditions with respect to designating an eligible designee.
(i) The term “de minimis” in paragraph (j)(7)(i) of this section means:
(A) Any amount that is equal to or less than $2,000; or
(B) Any amount greater than $2,000 if the property from which to collect delinquent contributions is a realizable value that is equal to or less than $2,000 net of all enforceable liens and applicable exemptions.
(ii) Prior to designating an eligible designee, a bankruptcy trustee must make reasonable and diligent efforts to determine whether the plan is owed any contributions (employer and employee) and the amount thereof. If the amount of contributions owed to the plan is more than a de minimis amount (as defined under paragraph (j)(5) of this section), the bankruptcy trustee shall designate an eligible designee (as defined in paragraph (j)(4) of this section) to be the qualified termination administrator for all purposes under this section.
(iii) The bankruptcy trustee shall at the time of the designation notify the eligible designee of its findings on the amount of delinquent contributions (employer and employee).
(iv) The bankruptcy trustee shall provide an eligible designee with reasonable access to any records under the control of the bankruptcy trustee that the eligible designee reasonably determines are necessary to enable the eligible designee to carry out its responsibilities under paragraph (j)(7) of this section.
(v) The bankruptcy trustee shall be responsible for the selection and monitoring of the eligible designee in accordance with section 404(a)(1)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(6)
Notice of intent to serve as qualified termination administrator.
In lieu of the content requirements in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the qualified termination administrator shall furnish to the U.S. Department of Labor a notice of intent to serve as qualified termination administrator that is signed and dated by the qualified termination administrator and that includes the following information:
(i)
Qualified termination administrator information.
The name, address (including email address), and telephone number of the bankruptcy trustee and, if applicable, the name, EIN, address (including email address), and telephone number of any eligible designee acting as the qualified termination administrator;
(ii)
Plan information.
(A) The name, address, telephone number, account number, EIN of the plan sponsor (if known), and plan number used on the Form 5500 Annual Return/Report filed for the plan with respect to which the person is serving as the qualified termination administrator,
(B) The name and last known address and telephone number of the plan sponsor, and
(C) The estimated number of participants and beneficiaries with accounts in the plan;
(iii)
Chapter 7 information.
A statement that, pursuant to paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the plan is considered to be abandoned due to an entry of an order for relief under chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and a copy of
the order or document entered in the case reflecting the bankruptcy trustee's appointment or authority to administer the plan sponsor's case;
(iv)
Fiduciary breaches.
Any information the qualified termination administrator believes may be evidence of other fiduciary breaches described in paragraph (j)(7)(ii) of this section.
(v)
Plan asset information.
(A) The estimated value of the plan's assets as of the date of the entry of an order for relief,
(B) The name, EIN, address (including email address) and telephone number of the entity that is holding these assets, and the length of time plan assets have been held by such entity, if the period of time is less than 12 months,
(C) An identification of any assets with respect to which there is no readily ascertainable fair market value, as well as information, if any, concerning the value of such assets, and
(D) An identification of delinquent contributions described in paragraph (j)(7)(i) of this section;
(vi)
Service provider information.
(A) The name, address, and telephone number of known service providers (
e.g.,
record keeper, accountant, lawyer, other asset custodian(s)) to the plan, and
(B) An identification of any services considered necessary to carry out the qualified termination administrator's authority and responsibility under this section, the name of the service provider(s) that is expected to provide such services, and an itemized estimate of expenses attendant thereto expected to be paid out of plan assets by the qualified termination administrator; and
(vii)
Perjury statement.
A statement that the information being provided in the notice is true and complete based on the knowledge of the person electing to be the qualified termination administrator, and that the information is being provided by the qualified termination administrator under penalty of perjury.
(7)
Winding up the affairs of the plan.
The qualified termination administrator shall comply with paragraph (d) of this section except as follows:
(i)
Delinquent contributions.
Except for qualified termination administrators of plans that are owed no more than a de minimis amount of contributions (employer and employee), the qualified termination administrator of a plan described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section shall, consistent with the duties of a fiduciary under section 404(a)(1) of the Act, take reasonable steps to collect delinquent contributions on behalf of the plan, taking into account the value of the plan assets involved, the likelihood of a successful recovery, and the expenses expected to be incurred in connection with collection.
(ii)
Report fiduciary breaches.
The qualified termination administrator must report delinquent contributions (employer and employee) owed to the plan, and any activity that the qualified termination administrator believes may be evidence of other fiduciary breaches that involve plan assets by a prior plan fiduciary. This information must be reported to the Employee Benefits Security Administration in conjunction with the filing of the notification required in paragraph (j)(6) (notice of intent to serve as qualified termination administrator) or (d)(2)(ix) (final notice) of this section. If, after the eligible designee completes the winding up of the plan, the bankruptcy trustee, in administering the debtor's estate, discovers additional information not already reported in the notification required in paragraphs (j)(6) or (d)(2)(ix) of this section that it believes may be evidence of fiduciary breaches that involve plan assets by a prior plan fiduciary, the bankruptcy trustee shall report such activity to the Employee Benefits Security Administration in a time and manner specified in instructions developed by the Office of Enforcement, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor.
(iii)
Distributions.
Paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(C) of this section (relating to the ability of a qualified termination administrator to designate itself as the transferee of distribution proceeds in accordance with § 2550.404a-3) is not applicable in the case of a qualified termination administrator that is the
bankruptcy trustee or an eligible designee defined under paragraph (j)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iv)
Pay reasonable expenses.
(A) If the qualified termination administrator is the bankruptcy trustee in the case, or an eligible designee as defined in paragraph (j)(4)(ii) of this section, then in lieu of the requirements in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(B)(
2
) of this section, such expenses are consistent with industry rates for such or similar services ordinarily charged by qualified termination administrators defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(7)(iv)(A) of this section, in lieu of the requirements in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(B)(
2
) of this section, expenses incurred to comply with paragraph (j)(7)(i) of this section (pertaining to collecting delinquent contributions) are consistent with industry rates for such or similar services ordinarily approved by bankruptcy courts for persons representing or assisting a bankruptcy trustee in performing collection duties in chapter 7 matters.
(8)
Rule of accountability.
The bankruptcy trustee or eligible designee shall not, for themselves or the other, through waiver or otherwise, seek a release from liability under ERISA, or assert a defense of derived judicial immunity (or similar defense) in any action brought against the bankruptcy trustee or eligible designee arising out of its conduct under this regulation.
[89 FR 43659, May 17, 2024]
Pt. 2578, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 2578—Model Notice of Intent To Terminate Abandoned Plan

# NOTICE OF INTENT TO TERMINATE PLAN
[
Date of notice
]
[
Name of plan sponsor
]
[
Last known address of plan sponsor
]
Re: [
Name of plan and account number or other identifying information
]
Dear [
Name of plan sponsor
]:
This letter is a notice of intent to terminate the above referenced plan and distribute benefits in accordance with the U.S. Department of Labor's Abandoned Plan Program. We will initiate the termination process under the Abandoned Plan Program unless you contact us within 30 days of your receipt of this notice. See 29 CFR 2578.1.
Our basis for taking this action is that our records reflect that there have been no contributions to, or distributions from, the plan within the past 12 months. {
If the basis for sending this notice is under 29 CFR 2578.1(b)(1)(i)(B), complete and include the sentence below rather than the sentence above.
} Our basis for taking this action is {
provide a description of the facts and circumstances indicating plan abandonment
}.
We are sending this notice to you because our records show that you are the sponsor of the subject plan. The U.S. Department of Labor requires that you be informed that, as a fiduciary or plan administrator or both, you may be personally liable for all costs, civil penalties, excise taxes, etc. as a result of your acts or omissions with respect to this plan. The termination of this plan by us will not relieve you of your liability for any such costs, penalties, taxes, etc. Federal law also requires us to notify the U.S. Department of Labor, Employee Benefits Security Administration, of the termination. For information about the federal law governing the termination of abandoned plans, you may contact the U.S. Department of Labor at 1.866.444.EBSA (3272) or
https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about-ebsa/ask-a-question/ask-ebsa.
Please contact [
name, address, and telephone number of the person, office, or department that the sponsor must contact regarding the plan
] within 30 days in order to prevent this action.
Sincerely,
[
Name and address of qualified termination administrator or appropriate designee
]
[89 FR 43665, May 17, 2024]
Pt. 2578, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 2578—Model Notice of Plan Abandonment and Intent To Serve as Qualified Termination Administrator (for Plans Found Abandoned Pursuant to 29 CFR 2578.1(b))
ER17MY24.020
ER17MY24.021
ER17MY24.022
[89 FR 43665, May 17, 2024]
Pt. 2578, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 2578—Model Notice of Intent To Serve as Qualified Termination Administrator (for Plans Deemed Abandoned Pursuant to 29 CFR 2578.1(j)(2))
ER17MY24.023
ER17MY24.024
ER17MY24.025
[89 FR 43665, May 17, 2024]
Pt. 2578, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 2578—Model Notice of Plan Termination

# NOTICE OF PLAN TERMINATION
[
Date of notice
]
[
Name and last known address of plan participant or beneficiary
]
Re: [
Name of plan
]
Dear [
Name of plan participant or beneficiary
]:
{
Insert as applicable
[We are]
or
[I am]} writing to inform you that the [
name of plan
] (Plan) has been terminated pursuant to regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Labor. The Plan was terminated because it was abandoned by [
name of the plan sponsor
]. {
For plans deemed abandoned pursuant to 29 CFR 2578.1(j)(2), replace the immediately preceding sentence with:
The Plan was terminated because [name of the plan sponsor] is in chapter 7 bankruptcy and the business is shutting down.}
We have determined that you have an interest in the Plan, either as a plan participant or beneficiary. Your account balance on [
date
] is/was [
account balance
]. We will be distributing this money as permitted under the terms of the Plan and federal regulations. The actual amount of your distribution may be more or less than the amount stated in this letter depending on investment gains or losses and the administrative cost of terminating the Plan and distributing your benefits.
Your distribution options under the Plan are {
add a description of the Retirement Plan's distribution options
}. It is very important that you elect one of these forms of distribution and inform us of your election. The process for informing us of this election is {
enter a description of the election process established by the qualified termination administrator
}.
{
Select the next paragraph from options 1 through 4, as appropriate.
}
{
Option 1: If this notice is for a participant or beneficiary, complete and include the following paragraph in cases in which the account balance will be distributed in accordance with the conditions of § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(i) or (ii).
}
If you do not make an election within 30 days from your receipt of this notice, your account balance will be transferred directly to an individual retirement plan (inherited individual retirement plan in the case of a nonspouse beneficiary) maintained by {
insert the name, address, and phone number of the provider if known, otherwise insert the following language
[a bank or insurance company or other similar financial institution]}. Pursuant to federal law, money transferred to an individual retirement plan will be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return and liquidity. {
If fee information is known, include the following sentence:
Should your money be transferred into an individual retirement plan, [
name of the financial institution
] charges the following fees for its services: {
add a statement of fees, if any, that will be paid from the participant or beneficiary's individual retirement plan
}.}
{
Option 2: If this notice is for a participant or beneficiary whose account balance will be distributed in accordance with the conditions of § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)(iii)), complete and include the following paragraph.
}
If you do not make an election within 30 days from your receipt of this notice, and your account balance is $1,000 or less, federal law permits us to transfer your balance to {
insert whichever is applicable:
“an interest-bearing federally insured bank account;” “an unclaimed property fund of the State of your last known address;”
or
“an individual retirement plan (inherited individual retirement plan in the case of a nonspouse beneficiary).”} {
If the transfer will be to an individual retirement plan, insert the following sentence:
Pursuant to federal law, your money would then be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return and liquidity.} {
If known, include the name, address, and telephone number of the financial institution or State fund into which the individual's account balance will be transferred or deposited. If the individual's account balance is to be transferred to a financial institution and fee information is known, include the following sentence:
Should your money be transferred into {
insert whichever is applicable:
“an individual retirement plan” or “bank account,” [
name of the financial institution
] charges the following fees for its services: {
add a statement of fees, if any, that will be paid from the individual's account
}.}
{
Option 3: If this notice is for a participant or beneficiary whose account balance meets the conditions of § 2550.404a-3(d)(1)((iv), complete and include the following paragraph.
}
If you do not make an election within 30 days from your receipt of this notice, and your account balance is $1,000 or less, federal law permits us to transfer your balance to an individual retirement plan (inherited individual retirement plan in the case of a nonspouse beneficiary). Pursuant to federal law, your money, if transferred to an individual retirement plan would then be invested in an investment product designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return and liquidity. However, if after exercising reasonable and good faith efforts, we cannot find an individual retirement plan provider who will accept your balance, we will transfer the balance to an interest-bearing federally insured bank account or to the unclaimed property fund of the State of your last known address. {
If the bankruptcy trustee or eligible designee knows where it will send the participant's or beneficiary's money, modify the preceding sentence accordingly and include the name, address, and telephone number of the financial institution or State fund into which the individual's account balance will be transferred or deposited. If the individual's account balance is to be transferred to a financial institution and fee information is known, include the following sentence:
Should your money be transferred into {
insert whichever is applicable:
“an individual retirement plan” or “a bank account,”}, [
name of the financial institution
] charges the following fees for its services: {
add a statement of fees, if any, that will be paid from the individual's account
}.}
{
Option 4: If this notice is for a participant or participant's spouse who will be distributed an annuity under § 2578.1(d)(vii)(B)(2) to meet the survivor annuity requirements in sections 401(a)(11) and 417 of the Internal Revenue Code (or section 205 of ERISA), complete and include the following paragraph.
}
If you do not make an election within 30 days from your receipt of this notice, your account balance will be distributed in the form of a qualified joint and survivor annuity or qualified preretirement annuity as required by the Internal Revenue Code. {
If the name of the annuity provider is known, include the following sentence:
The name of the annuity provider is [
name, address and phone number of the provider
].}
For more information about the termination, your account balance, or distribution options, please contact [
name, address, and telephone number of the qualified termination administrator and, if different, the name, address, and telephone number of the appropriate contact person
].
Sincerely,
[
Name of qualified termination administrator or appropriate designee
]
[
Name of plan
]
[89 FR 43665, May 17, 2024]
Pt. 2578, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 2578—Model Abandoned Plans Final Notice
ER17MY24.026
ER17MY24.027
[89 FR 43665, May 17, 2024]
SUBCHAPTER H [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER I—TEMPORARY BONDING RULES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
Pt. 2580

# PART 2580—TEMPORARY BONDING RULES

# Subpart A—Criteria for Determining Who Must Be Bonded
Sec.
2580.412-1
Statutory provisions.
2580.412-2
Plans exempt from the coverage of section 13.
2580.412-3
Plan administrators, officers and employees for purposes of section 13.
2580.412-4
“Funds or other property” of a plan.
2580.412-5
Determining when “funds or other property” belong to a plan.
2580.412-6
Determining when “funds or other property” are “handled” so as to require bonding.

# Subpart B—Scope and Form of the Bond
2580.412-7
Statutory provision—scope of the bond.
2580.412-8
The nature of the duties or activities to which the bonding requirement relates.
2580.412-9
Meaning of fraud or dishonesty.
2580.412-10
Individual or schedule or blanket form of bonds.

# Subpart C—Amount of the Bond
2580.412-11
Statutory provision.
2580.412-12
Relationship of determining the amount of the bond to “handling”.
2580.412-13
The meaning of “funds” in determining the amount of the bond.
2580.412-14
Determining the amount of funds “handled” during the preceding reporting year.
2580.412-15
Procedures to be used for estimating the amount of funds to be “handled” during the current reporting year in those cases where there is no preceding reporting year.
2580.412-16
Amount of bond required in given types of bonds or where more than one plan is insured in the same bond.
2580.412-17
Bonds over $500,000.

# Subpart D—General Bond Rules
2580.412-18
Naming of insureds.
2580.412-19
Term of the bond, discovery period, other bond clauses.
2580.412-20
Use of existing bonds, separate bonds and additional bonding.

# Subpart E—Qualified Agents, Brokers and Surety Companies for the Placing of Bonds
2580.412-21
Corporate sureties holding grants of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury.
2580.412-22
Interests held in agents, brokers and surety companies.

# Subpart F—Exemptions

# Bonds Placed With Certain Reinsuring Companies
2580.412-23
Exemption.
2580.412-24
Conditions of exemption.

# Bonds Placed With Underwriters at Lloyds, London
2580.412-25
Exemption.
2580.412-26
Conditions of exemption.

# Banking Institutions Subject to Federal Regulation
2580.412-27
Exemption.
2580.412-28
Conditions of exemption.

# Savings and Loan Associations Subject to Federal Regulation
2580.412-29
Exemption.
2580.412-30
Conditions of exemption.

# Insurance Carriers, Service and Other Similar Organizations
2580.412-31
Exemption.
2580.412-32
Conditions of exemption.

# Subpart G—Prohibition Against Bonding by Parties Interested in the Plan
2580.412-33
Introductory statement.
2580.412-34
General.
2580.412-35
Disqualification of agents, brokers and sureties.
2580.412-36
Application of 13(c) to “party in interest”.

# Authority:
Sec. 505, Pub. L. 93-406, 88 Stat. 894 (29 U.S.C. 1135); sec. 412(e), Pub. L. 93-406, 88 Stat. 889 (29 U.S.C. 1112).

# Source:
28 FR 14403, Dec. 27, 1963, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985.

# Subpart A—Criteria for Determining Who Must Be Bonded
§ 2580.412-1
Statutory provisions.
Section 13(a) of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act of 1958, as amended, states, in part, that:
Every administrator, officer and employee of any employee welfare benefit plan or of any employee pension benefit plan subject to this Act who handles funds or other property of such plan shall be bonded as herein provided; except that, where such plan is one under which the only assets from which benefits are paid are the general assets of a union or of an employer, the administrator, officers and employees of such plan shall be exempt from the bonding requirements of this section.
* * * Such bond shall provide protection to the plan against loss by reason of acts of fraud or dishonesty on the part of such administrator, officer, or employee, directly or through connivance with others.
§ 2580.412-2
Plans exempt from the coverage of section 13.
Only completely unfunded plans in which the plan benefits derive solely from the general assets of a union
1
or employer, and in which plan assets are not segregated in any way from the general assets of a union or employer and remain solely within the general assets until the time of distribution of benefits, shall be exempt from the bonding provisions. As such, the language “where such plan is one under which the only assets from which benefits are paid are the general assets of a union or of an employer” shall not be deemed to exempt a plan from the coverage of section 13 if the plan is one in which:
1
For purposes of the exemption discussed in § 2580.412-2, the term “union” shall include “* * * any organization of any kind or any agency or employee representation committee, association, group, or plan, in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning an employee welfare or pension benefit plan, or other matters incidental to employment relationships * * *” (29 U.S.C. 302(a)(3)).
(a) Any benefits thereunder are provided or underwritten by an insurance carrier or service or other organization, or
(b) There is a trust or other separate entity to which contributions are made or out of which benefits are paid, or
(c) Contributions to the plan are made by the employees, either through withholding or otherwise, or from any source other than the employer or union involved, or
(d) There is a separately maintained bank account or separately maintained books and records for the plan or other evidence of the existence of a segregrated or separately maintained or administered fund out of which plan benefits are to be provided.
As a general rule, the presence of special ledger accounts or accounting entries for plan funds as an integral part of the general books and records of an employer or union shall not, in and of itself, be deemed sufficient evidence of segregation of plan funds to take a plan out of the exempt category, but shall be considered along with the other factors and criteria discussed above in determining whether the exemption applies. Again, it should be noted, however, that the fact that a plan is not exempt from the coverage of section 13 does not necessarily mean that its administrators, officers or employees are required to be bonded. As stated previously, this will depend in each case on whether or not they “handle” funds or other property of the plan within the meaning of section 13 and under the standards set forth in § 2580.412-6.
§ 2580.412-3
Plan administrators, officers and employees for purposes of section 13.
(a)
Administrator.
(1) For purposes of the bonding provisions, the term “administrator” is defined in the same manner as under section 5 of the Act and refers to:
(i) The person or persons designated by the terms of the plan or the collective bargaining agreement with responsibility for the ultimate control, disposition, or management of the money received or contributed; or
(ii) In the absence of such designation, the person or persons actually responsible for the control, disposition, or management of the money received or contributed, irrespective of whether
such control, disposition, or management is exercised directly or through an agent or trustee designated by such person or persons.
(2) Where by virtue of this definition, or regulations, interpretations or opinions issued with respect thereto, the term embodies natural persons such as members of the board of trustees of a trust, the bonding requirements shall apply to such persons.
(3) However, when by virtue of this definition or regulations, interpretations, or opinions issued with respect thereto, the administrator in a given case in an entity such as a partnership, corporation, mutual company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, union or employees' beneficiary association, the term shall be deemed to apply, in meeting the bonding requirements, only to those natural persons who:
(i) Are vested under the authority of the entity-administrator with the responsibility for carrying out functions constituting control, disposition or management of the money received or contributed within the definition of administrator, or who, acting on behalf of or under the actual or apparent authority of the entity-administrator, actually perform such functions, and who
(ii) “Handle” funds or other property of the plan within the meaning of these regulations.
(b)
Officers.
For purposes of the bonding provisions, the term “officer” shall include any person designated by the terms of a plan or collective bargaining agreement as an officer, any person performing or authorized to perform executive functions of the plan or any member of a board of trustees or similar governing body of a plan. The term shall include such persons regardless of whether they are representatives of or selected by an employer, employees or an employee organization. In its most frequent application the term will emcompass those natural persons appointed or elected as officers of the plan or as members of boards or committees performing executive or supervisory functions for the plan, but who do not fall within the definition of administrator.
(c)
Employees.
For purposes of the bonding provisions the term “employee” shall, to the extent a person performs functions not falling within the definition of officer or administrator, include any employee who performs work for or directly related to a covered plan, regardless of whether technically he is employed, directly or indirectly, by or for a plan, a plan administrator, a trust, or by an employee organization or employer within the meaning of section 3(3) or 3(4) of the Act.
(d)
Other persons covered.
For purposes of the bonding provisions, the terms “administrator, officer, or employee” shall include any persons performing functions for the plan normally performed by administrators, officers, or employees of a plan. As such, the terms shall include persons indirectly employed, or otherwise delegated, to perform such work for the plan, such as pension consultants and planners, and attorneys who perform “handling” functions within the meaning of § 2580.412-6. On the other hand, the terms would not include those brokers or independent contractors who have contracted for the performance of functions which are not ordinarily carried out by the administrators, officers, or employees of a plan, such as securities, brokers who purchase and sell securities or armored motor vehicle companies.
[28 FR 14403, Dec. 27, 1963, as amended at 34 FR 5158, Mar. 13, 1969. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985]
§ 2580.412-4
“Funds or other property” of a plan.
The affirmative requirement for bonding persons falling within the definition of administrator, officer or employee is applicable only if they handle “funds or other property” of the plan concerned. The term “funds or other property” is intended to encompass all property which is used or may be used as a source for the payment of benefits to plan participants. It does not include permanent assets used in the operation of the plan such as land and buildings, furniture and fixtures or office and delivery equipment used in the operation of the plan. It does include all items in the nature of quick assets,
such as cash, checks and other negotiable instruments, government obligations and marketable securities. It also includes all other property or items convertible into cash or having a cash value and held or acquired for the ultimate purpose of distribution to plan participants or beneficiaries. In the case of a plan which has investments, this would include all the investments of the plan even though not in the nature of quick assets, such as land and buildings, mortgages, and securities in closely held corporations. However, in a given case, the question of whether a person was “handling” such “funds or other property” so as to require bonding would depend on whether his relationship to this property was such that there was a risk that he, alone or in connivance with others, could cause a loss of such “funds or other property” through fraud or dishonesty.
§ 2580.412-5
Determining when “funds or other property” belong to a plan.
With respect to any contribution to a plan from any source, including employers, employees or employee organizations, the point at which any given item or amount becomes “funds or other property” of a plan for purposes of the bonding provisions shall be determined as described in this section.
(a) Where the plan administrator is a board of trustees, person or body other than the employer or employee organization establishing the plan, a contribution to the plan from any source shall become “funds or other property” of the plan at the time it is received by the plan administrator. Employee contributions collected by an employer and later turned over to the plan administrator would not become “funds or other property” of the plan until receipt by the plan administrator.
(b) Where the employer or employee organization establishing the plan is itself the plan administrator:
(1) Contributions from employees or other persons who are plan participants would normally become “funds or other property” of the plan at the time they are received by the employer or employee organization, except however that contributions made by withholding from employees' salaries shall not be considered “funds or other property” of the plan for purposes of the bonding provisions so long as they are retained in and not segregated in any way from the general assets of the withholding employer or employee organization.
(2) Contributions made to a plan by such employer or employee organization and contributions made by withholdings from employees' salaries would normally become “funds or other property” of the plan if and when they are taken out of the general assets of the employer or employee organization and placed in a special bank account or investment account; or identified on a separate set of books and records; or paid over to a corporate trustee or used to purchase benefits from an insurance carrier or service or other organization; or otherwise segregated, paid out or used for plan purposes, whichever shall occur first. Thus, if a plan is operated by a corporate trustee and no segregation from general assets is made of monies to be turned over to the corporate trustee prior to the actual transmittal of such monies, the contribution represented in the transmission becomes “funds or other property” of the plan at the time of receipt by the corporate trustee. On the other hand, if a special fund is first established from which monies are paid over to the corporate trustee, a given item would become “funds or other property” of the plan at the time it is placed in the special fund. Similarly, if plan benefits are provided through the medium of an insurance carrier or service or other organization and no segregation from general assets of monies used to purchase such benefits is made prior to turning such monies over to the organization contracting to provide benefits, plan funds or other property come into being at the time of receipt of payment for such benefits by the insurance carrier or service or other organization. In such a case, the “funds or other property” of the plan would be represented by the insurance contract or other obligations to pay benefits and would not be normally subject to “handling”. Bonding would not be required for any person with respect to the purchase of such benefits directly from general assets nor with respect to
the bare existence of the contract obligation to pay benefits. However, if the particular, arrangement were such that monies derived from, or by virtue of, the contract did subsequently flow back to the plan, bonding may be required if such monies returning to the plan are handled by plan administrators, officers or employees. (Further discussion on bonding of insured plans is contained in § 2580.412-6(b)(7)).
§ 2580.412-6
Determining when “funds or other property” are “handled” so as to require bonding.
(a)
General scope of term.
(1) A plan administrator, officer, or employee shall be deemed to be “handling” funds or other property of a plan, so as to require bonding under section 13, whenever his duties or activities with respect to given funds or other property are such that there is a risk that such funds or other property could be lost in the event of fraud or dishonesty on the part of such person, acting either alone or in collusion with others. While ordinarily, those plan administrators, officers and employees who “handle” within the meaning of section 13 will be those persons with duties related to the receipt, safekeeping and disbursement of funds, the scope of the term “handles” and the prohibitions of paragraph (b) of section 13 shall be deemed to encompass any relationship of an administrator, officer or employee with respect to funds or other property which can give rise to a risk of loss through fraud or dishonesty. This shall include relationships such as those which involve access to funds or other property or decisionmaking powers with respect to funds or property which can give rise to such risk of loss.
(2) Section 13 contains no exemptions based on the amount or value of funds or other property “handled”, nor is the determination of the existence of risk of loss based on the amount involved. However, regardless of the amount involved, a given duty or relationship to funds or other property shall not be considered “handling”, and bonding is not required, where it occurs under conditions and circumstances in which the risk that a loss will occur through fraud or dishonesty is negligible. This may be the case where the risk of mishandling is precluded by the nature of the funds or other property (e.g., checks, securities or title papers which can not be negotiated by the persons performing duties with respect to them). It may also be the case where significant risk of mishandling in the performance of duties of an essentially clerical character is precluded by fiscal controls.
(b)
General criteria for determining “handling”.
Subject to the application of the basic standard of risk of loss to each situation, general criteria for determining whether there is “handling” so as to require bonding are:
(1)
Physical contact.
Physical contact with cash, checks or similar property generally constitutes “handling”. However, persons who from time to time perform counting, packaging, tabulating, messenger or similar duties of an essentially clerical character involving physical contact with funds or other property would not be “handling” when they perform these duties under conditions and circumstances where risk of loss is negligible because of factors such as close supervision and control or the nature of the property.
(2)
Power to exercise physical contact or control.
Whether or not physical contact actually takes place, the power to secure physical possession of cash, checks or similar property through factors such as access to a safe deposit box or similar depository, access to cash or negotiable assets, powers of custody or safekeeping, power to withdraw funds from a bank or other account generally constitutes “handling”, regardless of whether the person in question has specific duties in these matters and regardless of whether the power or access is authorized.
(3)
Power to transfer to oneself or a third party or to negotiate for value.
With respect to property such as mortgages, title to land and buildings, or securities, while physical contact or the possibility of physical contact may not, of itself, give rise to risk of loss so as to constitute “handling”, a person shall be regarded as “handling” such items where he, through actual or apparent authority, can cause those items to be transferred to himself or to a third party or to be negotiated for value.
(4)
Disbursement.
Persons who actually disburse funds or other property, such as officers or trustees authorized to sign checks or other negotiable instruments, or persons who make cash disbursements, shall be considered to be “handling” such funds or property. Whether other persons who may influence, authorize or direct disbursements or the signing or endorsing of checks or similar instruments will be considered to be “handling” funds or other property shall be determined by reference to the particular duties or responsibilities of such persons as applied to the basic criteria of risk of loss.
(5)
Signing or endorsing checks or other negotiable instruments.
In connection with disbursements or otherwise, any persons with the power to sign or endorse checks or similar instruments or otherwise render them transferable, whether individually or as co-signers with one or more persons, shall each be considered to be “handling” such funds or other property.
(6)
Supervisory or decision making responsibility.
To the extent a person's supervisory or decision making responsibility involves factors in relationship to funds discussed in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this section, such persons shall be considered to be “handling” in the same manner as any person to whom the criteria of those paragraphs apply. To the extent that only general responsibility for the conduct of the business affairs of the plan is involved, including such functions as approval of contracts, authorization of disbursements, auditing of accounts, investment decisions, determination of benefit claims and similar responsibilities, such persons shall be considered to be “handling” whenever the facts of the particular case raise the possibility that funds or other property of the plan are likely to be lost in the event of their fraud or dishonesty. The mere fact of general supervision would not necessarily, in and of itself, mean that such persons are “handling.” Factors to be accorded weight are the system of fiscal controls, the closeness and continuity of supervision, who is in fact charged with, or actually exercising final responsibility for determining whether specific disbursements, investments, contracts, or benefit claims are bona fide, regular and made in accordance with the applicable trust instrument or other plan documents.
(i) For example, persons having supervisory or decisionmaking responsibility would be “handling” to the extent they:
(
a
) Act in the capacity of plan “administrator” and have ultimate responsibility for the plan within the meaning of the definition of “administrator” (except to the extent that it can be shown that such persons could not, in fact, cause a loss to the plan to occur through fraud or dishonesty);
(
b
) Exercise close supervision over corporate trustees or other parties charged with dealing with plan funds or other property; exercise such close control over investment policy that they, in effect, determine all specific investments;
(
c
) Conduct, in effect, a continuing daily audit of the persons who “handle” funds;
(
d
) Regularly review and have veto power over the actions of a disbursing officer whose duties are essentially ministerial.
(ii) On the other hand, persons having supervisory or decisionmaking responsibility would not be “handling” to the extent:
(
a
) They merely conduct a periodic or sporadic audit of the persons who “handle” funds;
(
b
) Their duties with respect to investment policy are essentially advisory;
(
c
) They make a broad general allocation of funds or general authorization of disbursements intended to permit expenditures by a disbursing officer who has final responsibility for determining the propriety of any specific expenditure and making the actual disbursement;
(
d
) A bank or corporate trustee has all the day to day functions of administering the plan;
(
e
) They are in the nature of a Board of Directors of a corporation or similar authority acting for the corporation rather than for the plan and do not perform specific functions with respect to the operations of the plan.
(7)
Insured plan arrangements.
In many cases, plan contributions made
by employers or employee organizations or by withholding from employee's salaries are not segregated from the general assets of the employer or employee organization until payment for purchase of benefits from an insurance carrier or service or other organization. No bonding is required with respect to the payment of premiums or other payments made to purchase such benefits directly from general assets, nor with respect to the bare existence of the contract obligation to pay benefits. Such arrangements would not normally be subject to bonding except to the extent that monies returned by way of benefit payments, cash surrender, dividends, credits or otherwise, and which by the terms of the plan belonged to the plan (rather than to the employer, employee organization, insurance carrier or service or other organization) were subject to “handling” by plan administrators, officers or employees.

# Subpart B—Scope and Form of the Bond
§ 2580.412-7
Statutory provision—scope of the bond.
The statute requires that the bond shall provide protection to the plan against loss by reason of acts of fraud or dishonesty on the part of a plan administrator, officer, or employee, directly or through connivance with others.
§ 2580.412-8
The nature of the duties or activities to which the bonding requirement relates.
The bond required under section 13 is limited to protection for those duties and activities from which loss can arise through fraud or dishonesty. It is not required to provide the same scope of coverage that is required in faithful discharge of duties bonds under the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 or in the faithful performance bonds of public officials.
§ 2580.412-9
Meaning of fraud or dishonesty.
The term “fraud or dishonesty” shall be deemed to encompass all those risks of loss that might arise through dishonest or fraudulent acts in handling of funds as delineated in § 2580.412-6. As such, the bond must provide recovery for loss occasioned by such acts even though no personal gain accrues to the person committing the act and the act is not subject to punishment as a crime or misdemeanor, provided that within the law of the state in which the act is committed, a court would afford recovery under a bond providing protection against fraud or dishonesty. As usually applied under state laws, the term “fraud or dishonesty” encompasses such matters as larceny, theft, embezzlement, forgery, misappropriation, wrongful abstraction, wrongful conversion, willful misapplication or any other fraudulent or dishonest acts. For the purposes of section 13, other fraudulent or dishonest acts shall also be deemed to include acts where losses result through any act or arrangement prohibited by title 18, section 1954 of the U.S. Code.
§ 2580.412-10
Individual or schedule or blanket form of bonds.
Section 13 provides that “any bond shall be in a form or of a type approved by the Secretary, including individual bonds or schedule or blanket forms of bonds which cover a group or class”. Any form of bond which may be described as individual, schedule or blanket in form or any combination of such forms of bonds shall be acceptable to meet the requirements of section 13, provided that in each case, the form of the bond, in its particular clauses and application, is not inconsistent with meeting the substantive requirements of the statute for the persons and plan involved and with meeting the specific requirements of the regulations in this part. Basic types of bonds in general usage are:
(a)
Individual bond.
Covers a named individual in a stated penalty.
(b)
Name schedule bond.
Covers a number of named individuals in the respective amounts set opposite their names.
(c)
Position schedule bond.
Covers each of the occupants of positions listed in the schedule in the respective amounts set opposite such positions.
(d)
Blanket bonds.
Cover all the insured's officers and employees with no schedule or list of those covered being necessary and with all new officers and
employees bonded automatically, in a blanket penalty which takes two forms—an aggregate penalty bond and a multiple penalty bond which are described below:
(1) The aggregate penalty blanket bond such as the Commercial Blanket Bond; the amount of the bond is available for dishonesty losses caused by persons covered thereunder or losses in which such person is concerned or implicated. Payment of loss on account of any such person does not reduce the amount of coverage available for losses other than those caused by such person or in which he was concerned or implicated.
(2) The multiple penalty bond such as the Blanket Position Bond giving separate coverage on each person for a uniform amount—the net effect being the same as though a separate bond were issued on each person covered thereunder and all of such bonds being for a uniform amount.

# Note:
For the purpose of section 13, blanket bonds which are either aggregate penalty or multiple penalty in form shall be permissible if they otherwise meet the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part.
Bonding, to the extent required, of persons indirectly employed, or otherwise delegated, to perform functions for the plan which are normally performed by “administrators, officers, or employees” as described in § 2580.412-3(d) may be accomplished either by including them under individual or schedule bonds or other forms of bonds meeting the requirements of the Act, or naming them in what is known under general trade usage as an “Agents Rider” attached to a Blanket Bond.

# Subpart C—Amount of the Bond
§ 2580.412-11
Statutory provision.
Section 13 requires that the amount of the bond be fixed at the beginning of each calendar, policy or other fiscal year, as the case may be, which constitutes the reporting year of the plan for purposes of the reporting provisions of the Act. The amount of the bond shall be not less than 10 per centum of the amount of funds handled, except that any such bond shall be in at least the amount of $1,000 and no such bond shall be required in an amount in excess of $500,000:
Provided,
That the Secretary, after due notice and opportunity for hearing to all interested parties, and after consideration of the record, may prescribe an amount in excess of $500,000, which in no event shall exceed 10 per centum of the funds handled. For purposes of fixing the amount of such bond, the amount of funds handled shall be determined by the funds handled by the person, group, or class to be covered by such bond and by their predecessor or predecessors, if any, during the preceding reporting year, or if the plan has no preceding reporting year, the amount of funds to be handled during the current reporting year by such person, group, or class, estimated as provided in the regulations in this part. With respect to persons required to be bonded, section 13 shall be deemed to require the bond to insure from the first dollar of loss up to the requisite bond amount and not to permit the use of deductible or similar features whereby a portion of the risk within such requisite bond amount is assumed by the insured. Any request for variance from these requirements shall be made pursuant to the provisions of section 13(e) of the Act.
§ 2580.412-12
Relationship of determining the amount of the bond to “handling”.
A determination of whether persons falling within the definition of administrator, officer or employee are required to be bonded depends on whether they “handle” funds or other property. Determining the amount of the bond is an aspect of the same process in that it requires a determination of what funds or other property are being handled or what amounts of funds or other property are subject to risk of loss with respect to the duties or powers of an administrator, officer or employee of a covered plan. Once this calculation is made, the required amount for which that person must be covered by a bond, either by himself or as a part of a group or class being bonded under a blanket or schedule bond, is not less than 10 percent of the amount “handled” or $1,000, whichever is the greater amount, except that no such
bond shall be required in an amount greater than $500,000 by virtue of these regulations. (See § 2580.412-17.)
§ 2580.412-13
The meaning of “funds” in determining the amount of the bond.
The amount of the bond depends on the amount of “funds” “handled”, and shall be sufficient to provide bonding protection against risk of loss through fraud or dishonesty for all plan funds, including other property similar to funds or in the nature of funds. As such, the term “funds” shall be deemed to include and be equivalent to “funds and other property” of the plan as described in § 2580.412-4. With respect to any item of “funds or other property” which does not have a cash or readily ascertainable market value, the value of such property may be estimated on such basis as will reasonably reflect the loss the plan might suffer if it were mishandled.
§ 2580.412-14
Determining the amount of funds “handled” during the preceding reporting year.
(a) The amount of funds “handled” by each person falling within the definition of administrator, officer, or employee (or his predecessors) during the preceding reporting year shall be the total of funds subject to risk of loss, within the meaning of the definition of “handling” (see § 2580.412-6), through acts of fraud or dishonesty, directly or in connivance with others, by such person or his predecessors during the preceding reporting year. The relationship of the determination of the amount of funds “handled” to the determination of who is “handling” can best be illustrated by a situation that commonly arises with respect to executive personnel of a plan, where a bank or corporate trustee has the responsibility for the receipt, safekeeping, physical handling and investment of a plan's assets and the basic function of the executive personnel is to authorize payments to beneficiaries and payments for services to the corporate trustee, the actuary and the employees of the plan itself. Normally, in any given year, only a small portion of the plan's total assets is disbursed, and the question arises as to whether an administrator or executive personnel are “handling” only the amounts actually disbursed each year or whether they are “handling” the total amounts of the assets. The answer to this question depends on the same basic criterion that governs all questions of “handling”, namely, the possibility of loss. If the authorized duties of the persons in question are strictly limited to disbursements of benefits and payments for services, and the fiscal controls and practical realities of the situation are such that these persons cannot gain access to funds which they are not legitimately allowed to disburse, the amount on which the bond is based may be limited to the amount actually disbursed in the reporting year. This would depend, in part, on the extent to which the bank or corporate trustee which has physical possession of the funds also has final responsibility for questioning and limiting disbursements from the plan, and on whether this responsibility is embodied in the original plan instruments. On the other hand, where insufficient fiscal controls exist so that the persons involved have free access to, or can obtain control of, the total amount of the fund, the bond shall reflect this fact and the amount “handled” shall be based on the total amount of the fund. This would generally occur with respect to persons such as the “administrator”, regardless of what functions are performed by a bank or corporate trustee, since the “administrator” by definition retains ultimate power to revoke any arrangement with a bank or corporate trustee. In such case, the “administrator” would have the power to commit the total amount of funds involved to his control, unless the plan itself or other specific agreement (1) prevents the “administrator” from so doing or (2) requires that revocation cannot be had unless a new agreement providing for similar controls and limitations on the “handling” of funds is simultaneously entered into.
(b) Where the circumstances of “handling” are such that the total amount of a given account or fund is subject to “handling”, the amount “handled” shall include the total of all such funds on hand at the beginning of
the reporting year, plus any items received during the year for any reason, such as contributions or income, or items received as a result of sales, investments, reinvestment, interest or otherwise. It would not, however, be necessary to count the same item twice in arriving at the total funds “handled” by a given person during a reporting year. For example, a given person may have various duties or powers involving receipt, safekeeping or disbursement of funds which would place him in contact with the same funds at several times during the same year. Different duties, however, would not make it necessary to count the same item twice in arriving at the total “handled” by him. Similarly, where a person has several different positions with respect to a plan, it would not be necessary to count the same funds each time that they are “handled” by him in these different positions, so long as the amount of the bond is sufficient to meet the 10 percent requirement with respect to the total funds “handled” by him subject to risk or loss through fraud or dishonesty, whether acting alone or in collusion with others. In general, once an item properly within the category of “funds,” has been counted as “handled” by a given person, it need not be counted again even though it should subsequently be “handled” by the same person during the same year.
§ 2580.412-15
Procedures to be used for estimating the amount of funds to be “handled” during the current reporting year in those cases where there is no preceding reporting year.
If for any reason a plan does not have a complete preceding reporting year, the amount “handled” by persons required to be covered by a bond shall be estimated at the beginning of the calendar, policy or other fiscal year, as the case may be, which would constitute either the operating year or the reporting year of the plan, whichever shall occur first, as follows:
(a) In the case of a plan having a previous experience year, even though it has no preceding reporting year, the estimate of the amount to be “handled” for any person required to be covered shall be based on the experience in the previous year by applying the same standards and criteria as in a plan which has a preceding reporting year. Similarly, where a plan is recently established, but has had, at the time a bond is obtained, sufficient experience to reasonably estimate a complete year's experience for persons required to be bonded, the amount of funds to be “handled” shall be projected to the complete year on the basis of the period in which the plan has had experience, unless, to the knowledge of the plan administrator, the given period of experience is so seasonal or unrepresentative of the complete year's experience as not to provide a reasonable basis for projecting the estimate for the complete year.
(b) Where a plan does not have any prior experience sufficient to allow it to estimate the amount “handled” in the manner outlined in paragraph (a) of this section, the amount to be “handled” by the administrators, officers and employees of the plan during the current reporting year shall be that amount initially required to fund or set up the plan, plus the amount of contributions required to be made under the plan formula from any source during the current reporting year. In most cases, the amount of contributions will be calculated by multiplying the total yearly contribution per participant (required by the plan formula from either employers, employees, employer organizations or any other source) by the number of participants in the plan at the beginning of such reporting year. In cases where the per capita contribution cannot readily be determined, such as in the case of certain insured plans covered by the Act, the amount of contributions shall be estimated on the amount of insurance premiums which are actuarially estimated as necessary to support the plan, or on such other actuarially estimated basis as may be applicable. In the case of a newly formed profit-sharing plan covered by the Act, if the employer establishing the plan has a previous year of experience, the amount of contributions required by the plan formula shall be estimated on the basis of the profits of the previous year. The amount of the bond shall then be fixed at 10 percent of this calculation, but
not more than $500,000. A bond for such amount shall be obtained in any form the plan desires on all persons who are administrators, officers, or employees of the plan and who “handle” funds or other property of the plan.
§ 2580.412-16
Amount of bond required in given types of bonds or where more than one plan is insured in the same bond.
(a) As indicated in § 2580.412-10, the Act permits the use of blanket, schedule and individual forms of bonds so long as the amount of the bond penalty is sufficient to meet the requirements of the Act for any person who is an administrator, officer or employee of a plan handling funds or other property of the plan. Such person must be bonded for 10 percent of the amount he handles, and the amount of the bond must be sufficient to indemnify the plan for any losses in which such person is involved up to that amount.
(b) When individual or schedule bonds are written, the bond amount for each person must represent not less than 10 percent of the funds “handled” by the named individual or by the person in the position. When a blanket bond is written, the amount of the bond shall be at least 10 percent of the highest amount handled by any administrator, officer or employee to be covered under the bond. It should also be noted that if an individual or group or class covered under a blanket bond “handle” a large amount of funds or other property, while the remaining bondable persons “handle” only a smaller amount, it is permissible to obtain a blanket bond in an amount sufficient to meet the 10 percent requirements for all except the individual, group or class “handling” the larger amounts, with respect to whom excess indemnity shall be secured in an amount sufficient to meet the 10 percent requirement.
(c) The Act does not prohibit more than one plan from being named as insured under the same bond. However, any such bond must allow for recovery by each plan in an amount at least equal to that which would be required if bonded separately. This requirement has application where a person or persons sought to be bonded pursuant to the requirements of section 13 have “handling” functions in more than one plan covered under the bond. Where such is the case, the amount of the bond must be sufficient to cover any such persons having functions in more than one plan for at least 10 percent of the total amount “handled” by them in all the plans covered under the bond. For example, X is the administrator of two welfare plans run by the same employer and he “handled” $100,000 in the preceding reporting year for Plan A and $500,000 in the preceding reporting year for Plan B. If both plans are covered under the same bond, the amount of the bond with respect to X shall be at least $60,000 or ten percent of the total “handled” by X for both plans covered under the bond in which X has powers and duties of “handling” since Plan B is required to carry bond in at least the amount of $50,000 and Plan A, $10,000.
(d) Additionally, in order to meet the requirement that each plan be protected, it shall be necessary that arrangement be made either by the terms of the bond or rider to the bond or by separate agreement among the parties concerned, that payment of a loss sustained by one of such insureds shall not work to the detriment of any other plan covered under the bond with respect to the amount for which that plan is required to be covered. For example, if Plan A suffered a loss of $30,000 as described above and such loss was recompensed in its entirety by the surety company, it would receive $20,000 more than the $10,000 protection required under section 13, and only $30,000 would be available for recovery with respect to further losses caused by X. In a subsequently discovered defalcation of $40,000 by X from Plan B, it would be necessary that the bond, rider, or separate agreement provide that such amount of recovery paid to Plan A in excess of the $10,000 for which it is required to be covered, be made available by such insured to, or held for the use of, Plan B in such amount as Plan B would receive if bonded separately. Thus, in the instant case, Plan B would be able to recover the full $40,000 of its loss. Where the funds or other property of several plans are commingled (if permitted by law) with each other or with other funds,
such arrangement shall allow recovery to be attributed proportionately to the amount for which each plan is required to be protected. Thus, in the instant case, if funds or other property were commingled, and X caused a loss of these funds through fraud or dishonesty, one-sixth of the loss would be attributable to Plan A and five-sixths of the loss attributable to Plan B.
(e) The maximum amount of any bond with respect to any person in any one plan in $500,000, but bonds covering more than one plan may be required to be over $500,000 in order to meet the requirements of the Act, since persons covered by such a bond may have “handling” functions in more than one plan. The $500,000 limitations for such persons applies only with respect to each separate plan in which they have such functions. The minimum bond coverage for any administrator, officer, or employee “handling” funds or other property of a plan is $1,000 as respects each plan in which he has “handling” functions.
§ 2580.412-17
Bonds over $500,000.
The Labor-Management Services Administrator, after due notice and opportunity for hearing to all interested parties, and after consideration of the record, may prescribe an amount in excess of $500,000, which in no event shall exceed 10 per centum of the funds “handled.” Any requirement for bonding in excess of $500,000 shall be according to such other regulations as may be prescribed.

# Subpart D—General Bond Rules
§ 2580.412-18
Naming of insureds.
Since section 13 is intended to protect funds or other property of all plans involved, bonds under this section shall allow for enforcement or recovery by those persons usually authorized to act for such plans in such matters. In most cases, the naming of the plan or plans as insured will provide for such recovery. Where it is not clear that such recovery will be provided, however, a rider shall be attached to the bond or separate agreement made among the parties concerned to make certain that any reimbursement collected under the bond will be for the benefit and use of the plan suffering a loss. Such rider or agreement shall always be required as respects any bond (a) where the employer or employee organization is first named joint insured with one or more plans, or (b) two or more plans are named joint insureds under a single bond with the first named acting for all insureds for the purpose of orderly servicing of the bond.
§ 2580.412-19
Term of the bond, discovery period, other bond clauses.
(a)
Term of the bond.
The amount of any required bond must in each instance be based on the amount of funds “handled” and must be fixed or estimated at the beginning of the plan's reporting year, that is, as soon after the date when such year begins as the necessary information from the preceding reporting year can practicably be ascertained. This does not mean, however, that a new bond must be obtained each year. There is nothing in the Act that prohibits a bond for a term longer than one year, with whatever advantages such a bond might offer by way of a lower premium. However, at the beginning of each reporting year the bond shall be in at least the requisite amount. If, for any reason, the bond is below the required level at that time, the existing bond shall either be increased to the proper amount, or a supplemental bond shall be obtained.
(b)
Discovery period.
A discovery period of no less than one year after the termination or cancellation of the bond is required. Any standard form written on a “discovery” basis,
i.e.
, providing that a loss must be discovered within the bond period as a prerequisite to recovery of such loss, however, will not be required to have a discovery period if it contains a provision giving the insured the right to purchase a discovery period of one year in the event of termination or cancellation and the insured has already given the surety notice that it desires such discovery period.
(c)
Other bond clauses.
A bond shall not be adequate to meet the requirements of section 13, if, with respect to
bonding coverage required under section 13, it contains a clause, or is otherwise, in contravention of the law of the State in which it is executed.
§ 2580.412-20
Use of existing bonds, separate bonds and additional bonding.
(a)
Additional bonding.
Section 13 neither prevents additional bonding beyond that required by its terms, nor prescribes the form in which additional coverage may be taken. Thus, so long as a particular bond meets the requirements of the regulations in this part as to the persons required to be bonded and provides coverage for such persons in at least the minimum required amount, additional coverage as to persons or amount may be taken in any form, either on the same or separate bond.
(b)
Use of existing bonds.
Insofar as a bond currently in use is adequate to meet the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part or may be made adequate to meet these requirements through rider, modification or separate agreement between the parties, no further bonding is required.
(c)
Use of separate bonds.
The choice of whether persons required to be bonded should be bonded separately or under the same bond, whether given plans should be bonded separately or under the same bond, whether existing bonds should be used or separate bonds for Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act bonding should be obtained, or whether the bond is underwritten by a single surety company or more than one surety company, either separately or on a cosurety basis, is left to the judgment of the parties concerned, so long as the bonding program adopted meets the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part.

# Subpart E—Qualified Agents, Brokers and Surety Companies for the Placing of Bonds
§ 2580.412-21
Corporate sureties holding grants of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury.
(a) The provisions of section 13 require that any surety company with which a bond is placed pursuant to that section must be a corporate surety which holds a grant of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury under the Act of July 30, 1947 (6 U.S.C. 6-13), as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds. The Act provides, among other things, that in order for a surety company to be eligible for such grant of authority, it must be incorporated under the laws of the United States or of any State and the Secretary of the Treasury shall be satisfied of certain facts relating to its authority and capitalization. Such grants of authority are evidenced by Certificates of Authority which are issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and which expire on the April 30 following the date of their issuance. A list of the companies holding such Certificates of Authority is published annually in the
Federal Register,
usually in May or June. Changes in the list, occurring between May 1 and April 30, either by addition to or removal from the list of companies, are also published in the
Federal Register
following each such change.
(b) Where a surety becomes insolvent and is placed in receivership, or if for any other reason the Secretary of the Treasury determines that its financial condition is not satisfactory to him and he revokes the authority of such company to act as an acceptable surety under the Act of July 30, 1947, the “administrator” of the insured plan shall, upon knowledge of such facts, be responsible for securing a new bond with an acceptable surety.
(c) In obtaining or renewing a bond, the plan administrator shall assure that the surety is one which satisfies the requirements of this section. If the bond is for a term of more than one year, the plan administrator, at the beginning of each reporting year, shall assure that the surety continues to satisfy the requirements of this subpart.
§ 2580.412-22
Interests held in agents, brokers and surety companies.
Section 13(c) prohibits the placing of bonds, required to be obtained pursuant to section 13, with any surety or other company, or through any agent or broker in whose business operations a plan or any party in interest in a
plan has significant control or financial interest, direct or indirect. An interpretation of this section has been issued (§ 2580.412-36 of this chapter).

# Subpart F—Exemptions

# Source:
28 FR 14410, Dec. 27, 1963, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985.

# Bonds Placed With Certain Reinsuring Companies
§ 2580.412-23
Exemption.
An exemption from the bonding requirements of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act is granted by this section whereby bonding arrangements (which otherwise comply with the requirements of section 13 of the Act and the regulations issued thereunder) with companies authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury as acceptable reinsurers on Federal bonds will satisfy the bonding requirements of the Act.
§ 2580.412-24
Conditions of exemption.
(a) This exemption obtains only with respect to the requirement of section 13(a) of the Act that all bonds required thereunder shall have as surety thereon, a corporate surety company, which is an acceptable surety on Federal bonds under authority granted by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Act of July 30, 1947 (6 U.S.C. 6-13).
(b) The exemption is granted upon the condition that if for any reason the authority of any such company to act as an acceptable reinsuring company is terminated, the administrator of a plan insured with such company, shall, upon knowledge of such fact, be responsible for securing a new bond with a company acceptable under the Act and the exemptions issued thereunder.
(c) In obtaining or renewing a bond, the plan administrator shall ascertain that the surety is one which satisfies the requirements of the Act and the exemptions thereunder. If the bond is for a term of more than one year, the plan administrator, at the beginning of each reporting year, shall ascertain that the surety continues to do so.

# Bonds Placed With Underwriters at Lloyds, London
§ 2580.412-25
Exemption.
An exemption from the bonding requirements of subsection 13(a) of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act is granted by this section whereby arrangements (which otherwise comply with the requirements of section 13 of the Act and the regulations issued thereunder), with the Underwriters at Lloyds, London will satisfy the bonding requirements of the Act.
§ 2580.412-26
Conditions of exemption.
(a) This exemption obtains only with respect to the requirements of section 13(a) of the Act that all bonds required thereunder shall have as surety thereon, a corporate surety company, which is an acceptable surety on Federal bonds under authority granted by the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to the Act of July 30, 1947 (6 U.S.C. 6-13).
(b) This exemption is granted on the following conditions:
(1) Underwriters at Lloyds, London shall continue to be licensed in a state of the United States to enter into bonding arrangements of the type required by the Act.
(2) Underwriters at Lloyds, London, shall file with the Office of Pension and Welfare Benefit Programs two (2) copies of each annual statement required to be made to the Commissioner of Insurance of those states in which Underwriters at Lloyds, London are licensed. Copies of annual statements shall be filed with the Office of Pension and Welfare Benefit Programs within the same period required by the respective states.
(3) All bonding arrangements entered into by Underwriters at Lloyds, London under section 13 of the Act shall contain a “Service of Suit Clause” in substantial conformity with that set forth in the petition for exemption.

# Banking Institutions Subject to Federal Regulation
§ 2580.412-27
Exemption.
An exemption from the bonding requirements of subsections 13 (a) and (b)
of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act is granted whereby banking institutions and trust companies specified in § 2580.412-28 are not required to comply with subsections 13 (a) and (b) of the Act, with respect to welfare and pension benefit plans covered by the Act.
[34 FR 5158, Mar. 13, 1969. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985]
§ 2580.412-28
Conditions of exemption.
This exemption applies only to those banking institutions and trust companies subject to regulation and examination by the Comptroller of the Currency or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

# Savings and Loan Associations Subject to Federal Regulation
§ 2580.412-29
Exemption.
An exemption from the bonding requirements of subsections 13 (a) and (b) of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act is granted whereby savings and loan associations (including building and loan associations, cooperative banks and homestead associations) specified in § 2580.412-30 are not required to comply with subsections 13 (a) and (b) of the Act, with respect to welfare and pension benefit plans covered by the Act for the benefit of their own employees, where such a savings and loan association is the administrator of such plans.
[32 FR 6840, May 4, 1967. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985]
§ 2580.412-30
Conditions of exemption.
This exemption applies only to those savings and loan associations (including building and loan associations, cooperative banks and homestead associations) subject to regulation and examination by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
[32 FR 6840, May 4, 1967. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985]

# Insurance Carriers, Service and Other Similar Organizations
§ 2580.412-31
Exemption.
An exemption from the bonding requirements of subsection 13 (a) and (b) of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act is granted whereby any insurance carrier or service or other similar organization specified in § 2580.412-32 is not required to comply with subsections 13 (a) and (b) of the Act with respect to any welfare or pension benefit plan covered by the Act which is established or maintained for the benefit of persons other than the employees of such insurance carrier or service or other similar organization.
[34 FR 5158, Mar. 13, 1969. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985]
§ 2580.412-32
Conditions of exemption.
This exemption applies only to those insurance carriers, service or other similar organizations providing or underwriting welfare or pension plan benefits in accordance with State law.
[34 FR 5158, Mar. 13, 1969. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985]

# Subpart G—Prohibition Against Bonding by Parties Interested in the Plan

# Source:
28 FR 14412, Dec. 27, 1963, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 50 FR 26706, June 28, 1985.
§ 2580.412-33
Introductory statement.
(a) This part discusses the meaning and scope of section 13(c) of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act of 1958 (76 Stat. 39, 29 U.S.C. 308d(c)) (hereinafter referred to as the Act). This provision makes it unlawful “for any person to procure any bond [required by the Act] from any surety or other company or through any agent or broker in whose business operations such plan or any party in interest in such plan has any significant control or financial interest, direct or indirect.” Because the prohibition contained in this provision is broadly stated, it becomes a matter of importance to determine more specifically the types of arrangements intended to be prohibited.
(b) The provisions of section 13 of the Act, including 13(c) are subject to the general investigatory authority of the Director, Office of Labor-Management and Welfare-Pension Reports, embodied in section 9 of the Act. The correctness of an interpretation of these provisions can be determined finally and authoritatively only by the courts. It is necessary, however, for the Labor-Management Services Administrator to reach informed conclusions as to the meaning of the law to enable him to carry out his statutory duties of administration and enforcement. The interpretations of the Labor-Management Services Administrator contained in this part, which are issued upon the advice of the Solicitor of Labor, indicate the construction of the law which will guide the Labor-Management Services Administrator in performing his duties unless and until he is directed otherwise by authoritative ruling of the courts or unless and until he subsequently decides that his prior interpretation is incorrect. Under section 12 of the Act, the interpretations contained in this part, if relied upon in good faith, will constitute a defense in any action or proceeding based on any Act or omission in alleged violation of section 13(c) of the Act. The omission, however to discuss a particular problem in this part, or in interpretations supplementing it, should not be taken to indicate the adoption of any position by the Labor-Management Services Administrator with respect to such problem or to constitute an administrative interpretation or practice. Interpretations of the Labor-Management Services Administrator with respect to 13(c) are set forth in this part to provide those affected by the provisions of the Act with “a practical guide * * * as to how the office representing the public interest in its enforcement will seek to apply it” (
Skidmore
v.
Swift
Co.,
323 U.S. 134, 138).
(c) To the extent that prior opinions and interpretations relating to 13(c) are inconsistent with the principles stated in this part, they are hereby rescinded and withdrawn.
§ 2580.412-34
General.
The purpose of section 13(c), as shown by its legislative history, is similar to a closely related provision contained in section 502(a) of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 536; 29 U.S.C. 502(a)). The fundamental purpose of Congress under 13(c) is to insure against potential abuses arising from significant financial or other influential interests affecting the objectivity of the plan or parties in interest in the plan and agents, brokers, or surety or other companies, in securing and providing the bond specified in section 13(a). As will be explained more fully below, this prohibition, however, was not intended to preclude the placing of bonds through or with certain parties in interest in plans which provide a variety of services to the plan, one of which is a bonding service.
§ 2580.412-35
Disqualification of agents, brokers and sureties.
Since 13(c) is to be construed as disqualifying any agent, broker, surety or other company from having a bond placed through or with it, if the plan or any party in interest in the plan has a significant financial interest or control in such agent, broker, surety or other company, a question of fact will necessarily arise in many cases as to whether the financial interest or control held is sufficiently significant to disqualify the agent, broker or surety. Although no rule of guidance can be established to govern each and every case in which this question arises, in general, the essential test is whether the existing financial interest or control held is incompatible with an unbiased exercise of judgment in regard to procuring the bond or bonding the plan's personnel. In regard to the foregoing, it is also to be pointed out that lack of knowledge or consent on the part of persons responsible for procuring bonds with respect to the existence of a significant financial interest or control rendering the bonding arrangement unlawful will not be deemed a mitigating factor where such persons have failed to make a reasonable examination into the pertinent circumstances affecting the procuring of the bond.
§ 2580.412-36
Application of 13(c) to “party in interest”.
(a) Under 13(c), an agent, broker or surety or other company is disqualified from having a bond placed through or with it if a “party in interest” in the plan has any significant control or financial interest in such agent, broker, surety or other company. Section 3(13) of the Act defines the term “party in interest” to mean “any administrator, officer, trustee, custodian, counsel, or employee of any employee welfare benefit plan or a person providing benefit plan services to any such plan, or an employer any of whose employees are covered by such a plan or officer or employee or agent of such employer, or an officer or agent or employee of an employee organization having members covered by such plan.”
(b) A basic question presented is whether the effect of 13(c) is to prohibit persons from placing a bond through or with any “party in interest” in the plan. The language used in 13(c) appears to indicate that in this connection the intent of Congress was to eliminate those instances where the existing financial interest or control held by the “party in interest” in the agent, broker, surety or other company is incompatible with an unbiased exercise of judgment in regard to procuring the bond or bonding the plan's personnel. Accordingly, not all parties in interest are disqualified from procuring or providing bonds for the plan. Thus where a “party in interest” or its affiliate provides multiple benefit plan services to plans, persons are not prohibited from availing themselves of the bonding services provided by the “party in interest” or its affiliate merely because the plan has already availed itself, or will avail itself, of other services provided by the “party in interest.” In this case, it is inherent in the nature of the “party in interest” or its affiliate as an individual or organization providing multiple benefit plan services, one of which is a bonding service, that the existing financial interest or control held is not, in and of itself, incompatible with an unbiased exercise of judgment in regard to procuring the bond or bonding the plan's personnel. In short, there is no distinction between this type of relationship and the ordinary arm's length business relationship which may be established between a plan-customer and an agent, broker or surety company, a relationship which Congress could not have intended to disturb. On the other hand, where a “party in interest” in the plan or an affiliate does not provide a bonding service as part of its general business operations, 13(c) would prohibit any person from procuring the bond through or with any agent, broker, surety or other company, with respect to which the “party in interest” has any significant control or financial interest, direct or indirect. In this case, the failure of the “party in interest” or its affiliate to provide a bonding service as part of its general business operations raises the posibility of less than an arm's length business relationship between the plan and the agent, broker, surety or other company since the objectivity of either the plan or the agent, broker or surety may be influenced by the “party in interest”.
(c) The application of the principles discussed in this section is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
B, a broker, renders actuarial and consultant service to plan P. B has also procured a group life insurance policy for plan P. B may also place a bond for P with surety company S, provided that neither B nor P has any significant control or financial interest, direct or indirect, in S and provided that neither P nor any other “party in interest” in P, e.g., an officer of the plan, has any significant control or financial interest, direct or indirect, in B or S.

# Example 2.
I, a life insurance company, has provided a group life insurance policy for plan P. I is affiliated with S, a surety company, and has a significant financial interest or control in S. P is not prohibited from obtaining a bond from S since I's affiliation with S does not ordinarily, in and of itself, affect the objectivity of P in procuring the bond or the objectivity of S in bonding P's personnel. However, if any other “party in interest” as defined in section 3(13) of the Act, such as the employer whose employees are covered by P, should have a significant financial interest or control in S, S could not write the bond for P, since the employer's interest affects the objectivity of P and S.

# SUBCHAPTER J—FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM ACT OF 1986
Pt. 2582

# PART 2582—RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY

# Subpart A—Temporary Bonding Rules
Sec.
2582.8478-1
Temporary bonding requirements.
2582.8478-2
Amount of the bond.

# Subpart B—Permanent Bonding Rules
2582.8478-3
Permanent bonding requirements.
2582.8478-4
Permanent amount of the bond.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8478 and 8478 note; Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2003, 68 FR 5374 (Feb. 3, 2003).

# Subpart A—Temporary Bonding Rules
§ 2582.8478-1
Temporary bonding requirements.
(a)
General.
Pending the issuance of permanent regulations under section 8478 of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), any fiduciary with respect to the Thrift Savings Fund (Fund) established under FERSA or any person who handles funds or other property of the Fund, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the bonding requirements of section 8478 of FERSA if he or she is bonded in compliance with the temporary bonding regulations under section 412 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) set forth in part 2580 of title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)
Application of ERISA temporary bonding rules.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Any reference to section 13 of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act, as amended (WPPDA), or any section thereof in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be deemed to refer to section 8478 of FERSA or the corresponding subsection thereof;
(2) Where the particular phrases set forth in FERSA are not identical to the phrases in the WPPDA, ERISA or the ERISA temporary bonding regulations, the phrases appearing in FERSA shall be substituted by operation of law; and
(3) Where the phrases are identical but the meaning is different, the meaning given such phrases by FERSA shall govern. For example, the phrase “every administrator, officer and employee of any employee welfare benefit plan or of any employee pension benefit plan subject to this Act who handles funds or other property of such plan” which appears in the WPPDA and in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be construed to mean, for purposes of this section, “each fiduciary and each person who handles funds or property of the Thrift Savings Fund,” which is the term appearing in section 8478 of FERSA; the terms “employee benefit plan” and “plan” which appear in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be construed to mean, for purposes of this section, “Thrift Savings Fund”; and the term “reporting year of the plan” which appears in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be construed to mean, for purposes of this section, “fiscal year of the Thrift Savings Fund.”
(c)
Effectiveness.
This section is effective until the earlier of the date of issuance by the Secretary of Labor of permanent regulations under section 8478 of FERSA or December 31, 1989.
[52 FR 35866, Sept. 23, 1987]
§ 2582.8478-2
Amount of the bond.
(a)
General.
Under the authority of section 8478(b)(1) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), the amount of a bond for each person, group or class to be bonded shall not be less than 10 percent of the amount of funds handled by such person, group or class with respect to any fiscal year of the Fund. In no case shall such bond be less than $1,000 nor more than $500,000. However, the Secretary of Labor reserves the authority under section 8478(b)(1) of FERSA to prescribe an amount in excess of
$500,000, after due notice and opportunity for hearing to all interested parties, and other consideration of the record.
(b)
Effectiveness.
This section shall remain in effect until it is amended or withdrawn in accordance with section 8478(b)(1) of FERSA, but in no event shall this section remain in effect beyond December 31, 1989.
[52 FR 35866, Sept. 23, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 53609, Dec. 29, 1989]

# Subpart B—Permanent Bonding Rules
§ 2582.8478-3
Permanent bonding requirements.
(a)
General.
Any fiduciary with respect to the Thrift Savings Fund (Fund) established under the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA) or any person who handles funds or other property of the Fund shall be deemed to be in compliance with the bonding requirements of section 8478 of FERSA if he or she is bonded in compliance with the temporary bonding regulations under section 412 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) set forth in part 2580 of title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)
Application of ERISA temporary bonding rules.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Any reference to section 13 of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act, as amended (WPPDA), or any section thereof in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be deemed to refer to section 8478 of FERSA or the corresponding subsection thereof;
(2) Where the particular phrases set forth in FERSA are not identical to the phrases in the WPPDA, ERISA or the ERISA temporary bonding regulations, the phrases appearing in FERSA shall be substituted by operation of law; and
(3) Where the phrases are identical but the meaning is different, the meaning given such phrases by FERSA shall govern. For example, the phrase “every administrator, officer and employee of any employee welfare benefit plan or of any employee pension benefit plan subject to this Act who handles funds or other property of such plan” which appears in the WPPDA and in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be construed to mean, for purposes of this section “each fiduciary and each person who handles funds or other property of the Thrift Savings Fund,” which is the term appearing in section 8478 of FERSA; the terms “employee benefit plan” and “plan” which appear in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be construed to mean, for purposes of this section, “Thrift Savings Fund”; and the term “reporting year of the plan” which appears in the ERISA temporary bonding regulations shall be construed to mean, for purposes of this section, “fiscal year of the Thrift Savings Fund.”
(c)
Effective date.
This section is effective January 1, 1990.
[54 FR 53609, Dec. 29, 1989]
§ 2582.8478-4
Permanent amount of the bond.
(a)
General.
Under the authority of section 8478(b)(1) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), the amount of a bond for each person, group or class to be bonded shall not be less than 10 percent of the amount of funds handled by such person, group or class with respect to any fiscal year of the Fund. In no case shall such bond be less than $1,000 nor more than $500,000. However, the Secretary of Labor reserves the authority under section 8478(b)(1) of FERSA to prescribe an amount in excess of $500,000, after due notice and opportunity for hearing to all interested parties, and other consideration of the record.
(b)
Effective date.
This section shall become effective January 1, 1990, and remain in effect until it is amended or withdrawn in accordance with section 8478(b)(1) of FERSA.
[54 FR 53609, Dec. 29, 1989]
Pt. 2584

# PART 2584—RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE ALLOCATION OF FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
Sec.
2584.8477(e)-1
General.
2584.8477(e)-2
Allocation of fiduciary duties.
2584.8477(e)-3
Procedures for allocation.
2584.8477(e)-4
Revocation and termination of allocation.
2584.8477(e)-5
Effect of allocation.
2584.8477(e)-6
Definitions.
2584.8477(e)-7
Effective date.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8477(e)(1)(E) and Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2003, 68 FR 5374 (Feb. 3, 2003).

# Source:
53 FR 52687, Dec. 29, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2584.8477(e)-1
General.
5 U.S.C. 8477(e)(1)(E) provides that any fiduciary with respect to the Thrift Savings Fund of the Federal Employees Retirement System who allocates a fiduciary responsibility to another person pursuant to procedures prescribed by the Secretary of Labor shall not be liable for an act or omission of such person except in specified circumstances. This part sets forth the procedures which have been prescribed by the Secretary of Labor for the allocation of fiduciary responsibilities.
§ 2584.8477(e)-2
Allocation of fiduciary duties.
(a) The fiduciary duties of the Board as set forth at 5 U.S.C. 8472 may not be allocated to any person other than a member or members of the Board.
(b) The Executive Director may allocate authority and responsibility for the investment and management of the Fixed Income Investment Fund to a qualified professional asset manager(s).
(c) The Executive Director may allocate authority and responsibility for the investment and management of the Government Securities Investment Fund, the Common Stock Index Investment Fund, the International Stock Index Investment Fund and the Small Capitalization Stock Index Investment Fund to an investment manager(s).
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, no allocation may be made which would constitute:
(1) A violation of an express policy of the Board; or
(2) An invalid delegation according to the Act or any other law.
(e) Except as provided in this part, no person who has or may acquire fiduciary responsibility in connection with the Thrift Savings Fund may allocate such responsibility to another person.
[53 FR 52687, Dec. 29, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 34394, May 30, 2000]
§ 2584.8477(e)-3
Procedures for allocation.
(a) Any allocation made by the Board must—
(1) Be authorized by the concurring vote of a majority of the total membership of the Board;
(2) Be made in writing, signed by the Chairman of the Board and acknowledged in writing by the receiving Board member or members;
(3) Set forth the duties and responsibilities allocated, either in the body of the document or by reference to another document existing at the time of the allocation; and
(4) Be communicated in an appropriate written form to the Executive Director, the participants and the beneficiaries of the Thrift Savings Fund.
(b) Any allocation made by the Executive Director must—
(1) Be made in writing, signed by the Executive Director and acknowledged in writing by the receiving fiduciary;
(2) Set forth the duties and responsibilities allocated, either in the body of the document or by reference to another document existing at the time of the allocation; and
(3) Be communicated in an appropriate written form to the participants and beneficiaries of the Thrift Savings Fund.
§ 2584.8477(e)-4
Revocation and termination of allocation.
(a) Any allocation made pursuant to this part must be revocable at will by the allocating fiduciary, subject only to notice which is reasonable under the circumstances.
(b) Any revocation by the allocating fiduciary or termination of an allocation by the fiduciary to whom duties have been allocated must set forth in writing the duties and responsibilities as to which the revocation or termination is effective, either in the body of the document or by reference to another document existing at the time of the revocation or termination.
(c) Any revocation of an allocation must—
(1) In the case of an allocation which was made by the Board, be authorized by the concurring vote of a majority of the total membership of the Board and be signed by the Chairman of the Board, or
(2) In the case of an allocation which was made by the Executive Director, be signed by the Executive Director.
(d) Any termination of an allocation, to be effective, must—
(1) In the case of an allocation which was made by the Board, be signed by the terminating fiduciary and acknowledged in writing by the Chairman of the Board, or
(2) In the case of an allocation which was made by the Executive Director, be signed by the terminating fiduciary and acknowledged in writing by the Executive Director.
(e) Any revocation or termination of an allocation must be communicated by the Executive Director in an appropriate written form to the participants and beneficiaries of the Thrift Savings Fund in a manner which identifies the person(s) assuming the responsibilities which were the subject of the revocation or termination.
§ 2584.8477(e)-5
Effect of allocation.
Where fiduciary responsibility has been allocated to another person or persons pursuant to the procedures contained in this part, the allocating fiduciary shall not be liable for any act or omission of such person or persons unless:
(a) The allocating fiduciary has violated 5 U.S.C. 8477(b) with respect to—
(1) The allocation or the continuation of the allocation,
(2) The implementation of these procedures, or
(3) The duty to monitor the performance of such person or persons in a reasonable manner during the life of the allocation, or
(b) The allocating fiduciary would otherwise be liable in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8477(e)(1)(D).
§ 2584.8477(e)-6
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act
means the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, 5 U.S.C. 8401
et seq.
(Supp. III 1997);
(b)
Board
means the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board established pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8472;
(c)
Common Stock Index Investment Fund
means the fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(C);
(d)
Executive Director
means the executive director of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board as appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8474;
(e)
Fiduciary duty
and
fiduciary responsibility
mean any duty or responsibility which involves the exercise of discretionary authority or discretionary control over—
(1) The management or disposition of the assets of the Thrift Savings Fund, or
(2) The administration of the Thrift Savings Fund;
(f)
Fixed Income Investment Fund
means the fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(B);
(g)
Government Securities Investment Fund
means the fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(A);
(h)
International Stock Index Investment Fund
means the fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(E);
(i)
Investment manager
means any fiduciary who—
(1) Has the power to manage, acquire or dispose of any asset of the plan,
(2) Is:
(i) Registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1),
(ii) Not registered as an investment adviser under such Act by reason of paragraph (1) of section 203A(a) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a) but is registered as an investment adviser under the laws of the state (referred to in such paragraph (1)) in which it maintains its principal office and place of business, and, at the time the fiduciary last filed the registration form most recently filed by the fiduciary with such state in order to maintain the fiduciary's registration under the laws of such state, also filed a copy of such form with the Secretary of Labor,
(iii) A bank, as defined in that Act, or
(iv) An insurance company qualified to perform services described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section under the laws of more than one state, and
(3) Has acknowledged in writing that he or she is a fiduciary with respect to the Thrift Savings Fund;
(j)
Qualified professional asset manager
has the meaning which is prescribed at 5 U.S.C. 8438(a)(7);
(k)
Small Capitalization Stock Index Investment Fund
means the fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(D);
(l)
Thrift Savings Fund
means the fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8437.
[53 FR 52687, Dec. 29, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 34394, May 30, 2000]
§ 2584.8477(e)-7
Effective date.
This section is effective December 29, 1988, and liability for any transaction which occurs on or after this date will be governed by this section only. In accordance with section 114(a) of Pub. L. 99-556, the interim regulations promulgated by the Board appearing at title 5, CFR, chapter VI, §§ 1660.1 through 1660.5 will no longer be effective as of December 29, 1988. Liability for transactions which occur before the effective date of this regulation, however, will continue to be governed by allocations made both during the statutorily defined effective period of the previously cited interim regulations and pursuant to the requirements of those regulations.

# SUBCHAPTER K—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM ACT OF 1986
Pt. 2589

# PART 2589—RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8477(e)(1)(B) and (f); Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2003, 68 FR 5374 (Feb. 3, 2003).

# Source:
54 FR 32636, Aug. 9, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2589.1
Civil penalties under section 8477(e)(1)(B) of FERSA.
(a) Section 8477(e)(1)(B) of FERSA, 5 U.S.C. 8477(e)(1)(B), permits the Secretary of Labor to assess a civil penalty against a party in interest who engages in a prohibited transaction with respect to the Thrift Savings Fund. The initial penalty under section 8477(e)(1)(B) is five percent of the “amount involved” in each such transaction for each year or part thereof during which the prohibited transaction continues. However, if the prohibited transaction is not corrected during the “correction period,” the civil penalty may be in an amount not more than 100% of the “amount involved.” The Department of Labor will apply the definitions set out in § 2560.502i-1(b) through (e) of this chapter of title 29 (civil penalties under section 502(i) of ERISA) in determining the “amount involved,” “correction,” “correction period,” and for computation of the section 8477(e)(1)(B) penalty.
(b) The rules of practice set forth in §§ 2570.1-2570.12 of part 2570, subpart A of subchapter G of this chapter of title 29 (procedures for the assessment of civil sanctions under ERISA section 502(i)) are applicable to prohibited transaction penalty proceedings under FERSA section 8477(e)(1)(B).

# SUBCHAPTER L—GROUP HEALTH PLANS
Pt. 2590

# PART 2590—RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR GROUP HEALTH PLANS

# Subpart A—Continuation Coverage, Qualified Medical Child Support Orders, Coverage for Adopted Children
Sec.
2590.606-1
General notice of continuation coverage.
2590.606-2
Notice requirement for employers.
2590.606-3
Notice requirements for covered employees and qualified beneficiaries.
2590.606-4
Notice requirements for plan administrators.
2590.609-1
[Reserved]
2590.609-2
National Medical Support Notice.

# Subpart B—Health Coverage Portability, Nondiscrimination, and Renewability
2590.701-1
Basis and scope.
2590.701-2
Definitions.
2590.701-3
Limitations on preexisting condition exclusion period.
2590.701-4
Rules relating to creditable coverage.
2590.701-5
Evidence of creditable coverage.
2590.701-6
Special enrollment periods.
2590.701-7
HMO affiliation period as an alternative to a preexisting condition exclusion.
2590.701-8
Interaction with the Family and Medical Leave Act. [Reserved]
2590.702
Prohibiting discrimination against participants and beneficiaries based on a health factor.
2590.702-1
Additional requirements prohibiting discrimination based on genetic information.
2590.702-2
Special rule allowing integration of Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs) and other account-based group health plans with individual health insurance coverage and Medicare and prohibiting discrimination in HRAs and other account-based group health plans.
2590.703
Guaranteed renewability in multiemployer plans and multiple employer welfare arrangements. [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Other Requirements
2590.711
Standards relating to benefits for mothers and newborns.
2590.712
Parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits.
2590.712-1
Nonquantitative treatment limitation comparative analysis requirements.
2590.715-1251
Preservation of right to maintain existing coverage.
2590.715-2704
Prohibition of preexisting condition exclusions.
2590.715-2705
Prohibiting discrimination against participants and beneficiaries based on a health factor.
2590.715-2708
Prohibition on waiting periods that exceed 90 days.
2590.715-2711
No lifetime or annual limits.
2590.715-2712
Rules regarding rescissions.
2590.715-2713
Coverage of preventive health services.
2590.715-2713A
Accommodations in connection with coverage of preventive health services.
2590.715-2714
Eligibility of children until at least age 26.
2590.715-2715
Summary of benefits and coverage and uniform glossary.
2590.715-2715A1
Transparency in coverage—definitions.
2590.715-2715A2
Transparency in coverage—required disclosures to participants and beneficiaries.
2590.715-2715A3
Transparency in coverage—requirements for public disclosure.
2590.715-2719
Internal claims and appeals and external review processes.
2590.715-2719A
Patient protections.

# Subpart D—Surprise Billing and Transparency Requirements
2590.716-1
Basis and scope.
2590.716-2
Applicability.
2590.716-3
Definitions.
2590.716-4
Preventing surprise medical bills for emergency services.
2590.716-5
Preventing surprise medical bills for non-emergency services performed by nonparticipating providers at certain participating facilities.
2590.716-6
Methodology for calculating qualifying payment amount.
2590.716-7
Complaints process for surprise medical bills regarding group health plans and group health insurance coverage.
2590.716-8
Independent dispute resolution process.
2590.717-1
Preventing surprise medical bills for air ambulance services.
2590.717-2
Independent dispute resolution process for air ambulance services.
2590.722
Choice of health care professional.
2590.725-1
Definitions.
2590.725-2
Reporting requirements related to prescription drug and health care spending.
2590.725-3
Aggregate reporting.
2590.725-4
Required information.

# Subpart E—General Provisions Related to Subparts B and C
2590.731
Preemption; State flexibility; construction.
2590.732
Special rules relating to group health plans.
2590.734
Enforcement. [Reserved]
2590.736
Applicability dates.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 1027, 1059, 1135, 1161-1168, 1169, 1181-1183, 1181 note, 1185, 1185a-n, 1191, 1191a, 1191b, and 1191c; sec. 101(g), Pub. L. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1936; sec. 401(b), Pub. L. 105-200, 112 Stat. 645 (42 U.S.C. 651 note); sec. 512(d), Pub. L. 110-343, 122 Stat. 3881; sec. 1001, 1201, and 1562(e), Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119, as amended by Pub. L. 111-152, 124 Stat. 1029; Division M, Pub. L. 113-235, 128 Stat. 2130; Pub. L. 116-260, 134 Stat. 1182; Secretary of Labor's Order 1-2011, 77 FR 1088 (Jan. 9, 2012).

# Source:
62 FR 16941, Apr. 8, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Continuation Coverage, Qualified Medical Child Support Orders, Coverage for Adopted Children
§ 2590.606-1
General notice of continuation coverage.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to section 606(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the administrator of a group health plan subject to the continuation coverage requirements of part 6 of title I of the Act shall provide, in accordance with this section, written notice to each covered employee and spouse of the covered employee (if any) of the right to continuation coverage provided under the plan.
(b)
Timing of notice.
(1) The notice required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be furnished to each employee and each employee's spouse, not later than the earlier of:
(i) The date that is 90 days after the date on which such individual's coverage under the plan commences, or, if later, the date that is 90 days after the date on which the plan first becomes subject to the continuation coverage requirements; or
(ii) The first date on which the administrator is required, pursuant to § 2590.606-4(b), to furnish the covered employee, spouse, or dependent child of such employee notice of a qualified beneficiary's right to elect continuation coverage.
(2) A notice that is furnished in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall, for purposes of section 606(a)(1) of the Act, be deemed to be provided at the time of commencement of coverage under the plan.
(3) In any case in which an administrator is required to furnish a notice to a covered employee or spouse pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the furnishing of a notice to such individual in accordance with § 2590.606-4(b) shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section.
(c)
Content of notice.
The notice required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and shall contain the following information:
(1) The name of the plan under which continuation coverage is available, and the name, address and telephone number of a party or parties from whom additional information about the plan and continuation coverage can be obtained;
(2) A general description of the continuation coverage under the plan, including identification of the classes of individuals who may become qualified beneficiaries, the types of qualifying events that may give rise to the right to continuation coverage, the obligation of the employer to notify the plan administrator of the occurrence of certain qualifying events, the maximum period for which continuation coverage may be available, when and under what circumstances continuation coverage may be extended beyond the applicable maximum period, and the plan's requirements applicable to the payment of premiums for continuation coverage;
(3) An explanation of the plan's requirements regarding the responsibility of a qualified beneficiary to notify the administrator of a qualifying event that is a divorce, legal separation, or a child's ceasing to be a dependent under the terms of the plan, and a description of the plan's procedures for providing such notice;
(4) An explanation of the plan's requirements regarding the responsibility of qualified beneficiaries who are
receiving continuation coverage to provide notice to the administrator of a determination by the Social Security Administration, under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
or 1381
et seq.
), that a qualified beneficiary is disabled, and a description of the plan's procedures for providing such notice;
(5) An explanation of the importance of keeping the administrator informed of the current addresses of all participants or beneficiaries under the plan who are or may become qualified beneficiaries; and
(6) A statement that the notice does not fully describe continuation coverage or other rights under the plan and that more complete information regarding such rights is available from the plan administrator and in the plan's SPD.
(d)
Single notice rule.
A plan administrator may satisfy the requirement to provide notice in accordance with this section to a covered employee and the covered employee's spouse by furnishing a single notice addressed to both the covered employee and the covered employee's spouse, if, on the basis of the most recent information available to the plan, the covered employee's spouse resides at the same location as the covered employee, and the spouse's coverage under the plan commences on or after the date on which the covered employee's coverage commences, but not later than the date on which the notice required by this section is required to be provided to the covered employee. Nothing in this section shall be construed to create a requirement to provide a separate notice to dependent children who share a residence with a covered employee or a covered employee's spouse to whom notice is provided in accordance with this section.
(e)
Notice in summary plan description.
A plan administrator may satisfy the requirement to provide notice in accordance with this section by including the information described in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section in a summary plan description meeting the requirements of § 2520.102-3 of this chapter furnished in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Delivery of notice.
The notice required by this section shall be furnished in a manner consistent with the requirements of § 2520.104b-1 of this chapter, including paragraph (c) of that section relating to the use of electronic media.
(g)
Model notice.
The appendix to this section contains a model notice that is intended to assist administrators in discharging the notice obligations of this section. Use of the model notice is not mandatory. The model notice reflects the requirements of this section as they would apply to single-employer group health plans and must be modified if used to provide notice with respect to other types of group health plans, such as multiemployer plans or plans established and maintained by employee organizations for their members. In order to use the model notice, administrators must appropriately add relevant information where indicated in the model notice, select among alternative language, and supplement the model notice to reflect applicable plan provisions. Items of information that are not applicable to a particular plan may be deleted. Use of the model notice, appropriately modified and supplemented, will be deemed to satisfy the notice content requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(h)
Applicability.
This section shall apply to any notice obligation described in this section that arises on or after the first day of the first plan year beginning on or after November 26, 2004.
ER26MY04.004
ER26MY04.005
ER26MY04.006
ER26MY04.007
[69 FR 30097, May 26, 2004; 69 FR 34921, June 23, 2004]
§ 2590.606-2
Notice requirement for employers.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to section 606(a)(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), except as otherwise provided herein, the employer of a covered employee under a group health plan subject to the continuation coverage requirements of part 6 of title I of the Act shall provide, in accordance with this section, notice to the administrator of the plan of the occurrence of a qualifying event that is the covered employee's death, termination of employment (other than by reason of gross misconduct), reduction in hours of employment, Medicare entitlement, or a proceeding in a case under title 11, United States Code, with respect to the employer from whose employment the covered employee retired at any time.
(b)
Timing of notice.
The notice required by this section shall be furnished to the administrator of the plan—
(1) In the case of a plan that provides, with respect to a qualifying event, pursuant to section 607(5) of the Act, that continuation coverage and the applicable period for providing notice under section 606(a)(2) of the Act shall commence on the date of loss of coverage, not later than 30 days after the date on which a qualified beneficiary loses coverage under the plan due to the qualifying event;
(2) In the case of a multiemployer plan that provides, pursuant to section 606(a)(2) of the Act, for a longer period of time within which employers may provide notice of a qualifying event, not later than the end of the period provided pursuant to the plan's terms for such notice; and
(3) In all other cases, not later than 30 days after the date on which the qualifying event occurred.
(c)
Content of notice.
The notice required by this section shall include sufficient information to enable the administrator to determine the plan, the covered employee, the qualifying event, and the date of the qualifying event.
(d)
Multiemployer plan special rules.
This section shall not apply to any employer that maintains a multiemployer plan, with respect to qualifying events affecting coverage under such plan, if the plan provides, pursuant to section 606(b) of the Act, that the administrator shall determine whether such a qualifying event has occurred.
(e)
Applicability.
This section shall apply to any notice obligation described in this section that arises on or after the first day of the first plan year beginning on or after November 26, 2004.
[69 FR 30097, May 26, 2004]
§ 2590.606-3
Notice requirements for covered employees and qualified beneficiaries.
(a)
General.
In accordance with the authority of sections 505 and 606(a)(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), this section sets forth requirements for group health plans subject to the continuation coverage requirements of part 6 of title I of the Act with respect to the responsibility of
covered employees and qualified beneficiaries to provide the following notices to administrators:
(1) Notice of the occurrence of a qualifying event that is a divorce or legal separation of a covered employee from his or her spouse;
(2) Notice of the occurrence of a qualifying event that is a beneficiary's ceasing to be covered under a plan as a dependent child of a participant;
(3) Notice of the occurrence of a second qualifying event after a qualified beneficiary has become entitled to continuation coverage with a maximum duration of 18 (or 29) months;
(4) Notice that a qualified beneficiary entitled to receive continuation coverage with a maximum duration of 18 months has been determined by the Social Security Administration, under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
or 1381
et seq.
) (SSA), to be disabled at any time during the first 60 days of continuation coverage; and
(5) Notice that a qualified beneficiary, with respect to whom a notice described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section has been provided, has subsequently been determined by the Social Security Administration, under title II or XVI of the SSA to no longer be disabled.
(b)
Reasonable procedures.
(1) A plan subject to the continuation coverage requirements shall establish reasonable procedures for the furnishing of the notices described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) For purposes of this section, a plan's notice procedures shall be deemed reasonable only if such procedures:
(i) Are described in the plan's summary plan description required by § 2520.102-3 of this chapter;
(ii) Specify the individual or entity designated to receive such notices;
(iii) Specify the means by which notice may be given;
(iv) Describe the information concerning the qualifying event or determination of disability that the plan deems necessary in order to provide continuation coverage rights consistent with the requirements of the Act; and
(v) Comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(3) A plan's procedures will not fail to be reasonable, pursuant to this section, solely because the procedures require a covered employee or qualified beneficiary to utilize a specific form to provide notice to the administrator, provided that any such form is easily available, without cost, to covered employees and qualified beneficiaries.
(4) If a plan has not established reasonable procedures for providing a notice required by this section, such notice shall be deemed to have been provided when a written or oral communication identifying a specific event is made in a manner reasonably calculated to bring the information to the attention of any of the following:
(i) In the case of a single-employer plan, the person or organizational unit that customarily handles employee benefits matters of the employer;
(ii) In the case of a plan to which more than one unaffiliated employer contributes, or which is established or maintained by an employee organization, either the joint board, association, committee, or other similar group (or any member of any such group) administering the plan, or the person or organizational unit to which claims for benefits under the plan customarily are referred; or
(iii) In the case of a plan the benefits of which are provided or administered by an insurance company, insurance service, or other similar organization subject to regulation under the insurance laws of one or more States, the person or organizational unit that customarily handles claims for benefits under the plan or any officer of the insurance company, insurance service, or other similar organization.
(c)
Periods of time for providing notice.
A plan may establish a reasonable period of time for furnishing any of the notices described in paragraph (a) of this section, provided that any time limit imposed by the plan with respect to a particular notice may not be shorter than the time limit described in this paragraph (c) with respect to that notice.
(1)
Time limits for notices of qualifying events.
The period of time for furnishing a notice described in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section may not end before the date that is 60 days after the latest of:
(i) The date on which the relevant qualifying event occurs;
(ii) The date on which the qualified beneficiary loses (or would lose) coverage under the plan as a result of the qualifying event; or
(iii) The date on which the qualified beneficiary is informed, through the furnishing of the plan's summary plan description or the notice described in § 2590.606-1, of both the responsibility to provide the notice and the plan's procedures for providing such notice to the administrator.
(2)
Time limits for notice of disability determination.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the period of time for furnishing the notice described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section may not end before the date that is 60 days after the latest of:
(A) The date of the disability determination by the Social Security Administration;
(B) The date on which a qualifying event occurs;
(C) The date on which the qualified beneficiary loses (or would lose) coverage under the plan as a result of the qualifying event; or
(D) The date on which the qualified beneficiary is informed, through the furnishing of the summary plan description or the notice described in § 2590.606-1, of both the responsibility to provide the notice and the plan's procedures for providing such notice to the administrator.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a plan may require the notice described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to be furnished before the end of the first 18 months of continuation coverage.
(3)
Time limits for notice of change in disability status.
The period of time for furnishing the notice described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section may not end before the date that is 30 days after the later of:
(i) The date of the final determination by the Social Security Administration, under title II or XVI of the SSA, that the qualified beneficiary is no longer disabled; or
(ii) The date on which the qualified beneficiary is informed, through the furnishing of the plan's summary plan description or the notice described in § 2590.606-1, of both the responsibility to provide the notice and the plan's procedures for providing such notice to the administrator.
(d)
Required contents of notice.
(1) A plan may establish reasonable requirements for the content of any notice described in this section, provided that a plan may not deem a notice to have been provided untimely if such notice, although not containing all of the information required by the plan, is provided within the time limit established under the plan in conformity with paragraph (c) of this section, and the administrator is able to determine from such notice the plan, the covered employee and qualified beneficiary(ies), the qualifying event or disability, and the date on which the qualifying event (if any) occurred.
(2) An administrator may require a notice that does not contain all of the information required by the plan to be supplemented with the additional information necessary to meet the plan's reasonable content requirements for such notice in order for the notice to be deemed to have been provided in accordance with this section.
(e)
Who may provide notice.
With respect to each of the notice requirements of this section, any individual who is either the covered employee, a qualified beneficiary with respect to the qualifying event, or any representative acting on behalf of the covered employee or qualified beneficiary may provide the notice, and the provision of notice by one individual shall satisfy any responsibility to provide notice on behalf of all related qualified beneficiaries with respect to the qualifying event.
(f)
Plan provisions.
To the extent that a plan provides a covered employee or qualified beneficiary a period of time longer than that specified in this section to provide notice to the administrator, the terms of the plan shall govern the time frame for such notice.
(g)
Additional rights to continuation coverage.
Nothing in this section shall
be construed to preclude a plan from providing, in accordance with its terms, continuation coverage to a qualified beneficiary although a notice requirement of this section was not satisfied.
(h)
Applicability.
This section shall apply to any notice obligation described in this section that arises on or after the first day of the first plan year beginning on or after November 26, 2004.
[69 FR 30097, May 26, 2004]
§ 2590.606-4
Notice requirements for plan administrators.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to section 606(a)(4) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (the Act), the administrator of a group health plan subject to the continuation coverage requirements of Part 6 of title I of the Act shall provide, in accordance with this section, notice to each qualified beneficiary of the qualified beneficiary's rights to continuation coverage under the plan.
(b)
Notice of right to elect continuation coverage.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, upon receipt of a notice of qualifying event furnished in accordance with § 2590.606-2 or § 2590.606-3, the administrator shall furnish to each qualified beneficiary, not later than 14 days after receipt of the notice of qualifying event, a notice meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(2) In the case of a plan with respect to which an employer of a covered employee is also the administrator of the plan, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if the employer is otherwise required to furnish a notice of a qualifying event to an administrator pursuant to § 2590.606-2, the administrator shall furnish to each qualified beneficiary a notice meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section not later than 44 days after:
(i) In the case of a plan that provides, with respect to the qualifying event, that continuation coverage and the applicable period for providing notice under section 606(a)(2) of the Act shall commence with the date of loss of coverage, the date on which a qualified beneficiary loses coverage under the plan due to the qualifying event; or
(ii) In all other cases, the date on which the qualifying event occurred.
(3) In the case of a plan that is a multiemployer plan, a notice meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall be furnished not later than the later of:
(i) The end of the time period provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or
(ii) The end of the time period provided in the terms of the plan for such purpose.
(4) The notice required by this paragraph (b) shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and shall contain the following information:
(i) The name of the plan under which continuation coverage is available; and the name, address and telephone number of the party responsible under the plan for the administration of continuation coverage benefits;
(ii) Identification of the qualifying event;
(iii) Identification, by status or name, of the qualified beneficiaries who are recognized by the plan as being entitled to elect continuation coverage with respect to the qualifying event, and the date on which coverage under the plan will terminate (or has terminated) unless continuation coverage is elected;
(iv) A statement that each individual who is a qualified beneficiary with respect to the qualifying event has an independent right to elect continuation coverage, that a covered employee or a qualified beneficiary who is the spouse of the covered employee (or was the spouse of the covered employee on the day before the qualifying event occurred) may elect continuation coverage on behalf of all other qualified beneficiaries with respect to the qualifying event, and that a parent or legal guardian may elect continuation coverage on behalf of a minor child;
(v) An explanation of the plan's procedures for electing continuation coverage, including an explanation of the time period during which the election must be made, and the date by which the election must be made;
(vi) An explanation of the consequences of failing to elect or waiving
continuation coverage, including an explanation that a qualified beneficiary's decision whether to elect continuation coverage will affect the future rights of qualified beneficiaries to portability of group health coverage, guaranteed access to individual health coverage, and special enrollment under part 7 of title I of the Act, with a reference to where a qualified beneficiary may obtain additional information about such rights; and a description of the plan's procedures for revoking a waiver of the right to continuation coverage before the date by which the election must be made;
(vii) A description of the continuation coverage that will be made available under the plan, if elected, including the date on which such coverage will commence, either by providing a description of the coverage or by reference to the plan's summary plan description;
(viii) An explanation of the maximum period for which continuation coverage will be available under the plan, if elected; an explanation of the continuation coverage termination date; and an explanation of any events that might cause continuation coverage to be terminated earlier than the end of the maximum period;
(ix) A description of the circumstances (if any) under which the maximum period of continuation coverage may be extended due either to the occurrence of a second qualifying event or a determination by the Social Security Administration, under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
or 1381
et seq.
) (SSA), that the qualified beneficiary is disabled, and the length of any such extension;
(x) In the case of a notice that offers continuation coverage with a maximum duration of less than 36 months, a description of the plan's requirements regarding the responsibility of qualified beneficiaries to provide notice of a second qualifying event and notice of a disability determination under the SSA, along with a description of the plan's procedures for providing such notices, including the times within which such notices must be provided and the consequences of failing to provide such notices. The notice shall also explain the responsibility of qualified beneficiaries to provide notice that a disabled qualified beneficiary has subsequently been determined to no longer be disabled;
(xi) A description of the amount, if any, that each qualified beneficiary will be required to pay for continuation coverage;
(xii) A description of the due dates for payments, the qualified beneficiaries' right to pay on a monthly basis, the grace periods for payment, the address to which payments should be sent, and the consequences of delayed payment and non-payment;
(xiii) An explanation of the importance of keeping the administrator informed of the current addresses of all participants or beneficiaries under the plan who are or may become qualified beneficiaries; and
(xiv) A statement that the notice does not fully describe continuation coverage or other rights under the plan, and that more complete information regarding such rights is available in the plan's summary plan description or from the plan administrator.
(c)
Notice of unavailability of continuation coverage.
(1) In the event that an administrator receives a notice furnished in accordance with § 2590.606-3 relating to a qualifying event, second qualifying event, or determination of disability by the Social Security Administration regarding a covered employee, qualified beneficiary, or other individual and determines that the individual is not entitled to continuation coverage under part 6 of title I of the Act, the administrator shall provide to such individual an explanation as to why the individual is not entitled to continuation coverage.
(2) The notice required by this paragraph (c) shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and shall be furnished by the administrator in accordance with the time frame set out in paragraph (b) of this section that would apply if the administrator received a notice of qualifying event and determined that the individual was entitled to continuation coverage.
(d)
Notice of termination of continuation coverage.
(1) The administrator of a plan that is providing continuation
coverage to one or more qualified beneficiaries with respect to a qualifying event shall provide, in accordance with this paragraph (d), notice to each such qualified beneficiary of any termination of continuation coverage that takes effect earlier than the end of the maximum period of continuation coverage applicable to such qualifying event.
(2) The notice required by this paragraph (d) shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant and shall contain the following information:
(i) The reason that continuation coverage has terminated earlier than the end of the maximum period of continuation coverage applicable to such qualifying event;
(ii) The date of termination of continuation coverage; and
(iii) Any rights the qualified beneficiary may have under the plan or under applicable law to elect an alternative group or individual coverage, such as a conversion right.
(3) The notice required by this paragraph (d) shall be furnished by the administrator as soon as practicable following the administrator's determination that continuation coverage shall terminate.
(e)
Special notice rules.
The notices required by paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be furnished to each qualified beneficiary or individual, except that:
(1) An administrator may provide notice to a covered employee and the covered employee's spouse by furnishing a single notice addressed to both the covered employee and the covered employee's spouse, if, on the basis of the most recent information available to the plan, the covered employee's spouse resides at the same location as the covered employee; and
(2) An administrator may provide notice to each qualified beneficiary who is the dependent child of a covered employee by furnishing a single notice to the covered employee or the covered employee's spouse, if, on the basis of the most recent information available to the plan, the dependent child resides at the same location as the individual to whom such notice is provided.
(f)
Delivery of notice.
The notices required by this section shall be furnished in any manner consistent with the requirements of § 2520.104b-1 of this chapter, including paragraph (c) of that section relating to the use of electronic media.
(g)
Model notice.
The appendix to this section contains a model notice that is intended to assist administrators in discharging the notice obligations of paragraph (b) of this section. Use of the model notice is not mandatory. The model notice reflects the requirements of this section as they would apply to single-employer group health plans and must be modified if used to provide notice with respect to other types of group health plans, such as multiemployer plans or plans established and maintained by employee organizations for their members. In order to use the model notice, administrators must appropriately add relevant information where indicated in the model notice, select among alternative language and supplement the model notice to reflect applicable plan provisions. Items of information that are not applicable to a particular plan may be deleted. Use of the model notice, appropriately modified and supplemented, will be deemed to satisfy the notice content requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(h)
Applicability.
This section shall apply to any notice obligation described in this section that arises on or after the first day of the first plan year beginning on or after November 26, 2004.
ER26MY04.008
ER26MY04.009
ER23JN04.004
ER26MY04.011
ER26MY04.012
ER26MY04.013
ER26MY04.014
[69 FR 30097, May 26, 2004; 69 FR 34921, June 23, 2004]
§ 2590.609-1
[Reserved]
§ 2590.609-2
National Medical Support Notice.
(a) This section promulgates the National Medical Support Notice (the Notice), as mandated by section 401(b) of the Child Support Performance and Incentive Act of 1998 (Pub. L. 105-200). If the Notice is appropriately completed and satisfies paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 609(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), the Notice is deemed to be a qualified medical child support order (QMCSO) pursuant to ERISA section 609(a)(5)(C). Section 609(a) of ERISA delineates the rights and obligations of the alternate recipient (child), the participant, and the group health plan under a QMCSO. A copy of the Notice is available on the Internet at
http://www.dol.gov/ebsa.
(b) For purposes of this section, a plan administrator shall find that a Notice is appropriately completed if it contains the name of an Issuing Agency, the name and mailing address (if any) of an employee who is a participant under the plan, the name and mailing address of one or more alternate recipient(s) (child(ren) of the participant) (or the name and address of a substituted official or agency which has been substituted for the mailing address of the alternate recipient(s)), and identifies an underlying child support order.
(c)(1) Under section 609(a)(3)(A) of ERISA, in order to be qualified, a medical child support order must clearly specify the name and the last known mailing address (if any) of the participant and the name and mailing address of each alternate recipient covered by the order, except that, to the extent provided in the order, the name and mailing address of an official of a State or a political subdivision thereof may be substituted for the mailing address of any such alternate recipient. Section 609(a)(3)(B) of ERISA requires a reasonable description of the type of coverage to be provided to each such alternate recipient, or the manner in which such type of coverage is to be determined. Section 609(a)(3)(C) of ERISA requires that the order specify the period to which such order applies.
(2) The Notice satisfies ERISA section 609(a)(3)(A) by including the necessary identifying information described in § 2590.609-2(b).
(3) The Notice satisfies ERISA section 609(a)(3)(B) by having the Issuing Agency identify either the specific type of coverage or all available group health coverage. If an employer receives a Notice that does not designate either specific type(s) of coverage or all available coverage, the employer and plan administrator should assume that all are designated. The Notice further satisfies ERISA section 609(a)(3)(B) by instructing the plan administrator that if a group health plan has multiple options and the participant is not enrolled, the Issuing Agency will make a selection after the Notice is qualified, and, if the Issuing Agency does not respond within 20 days, the child will be enrolled under the plan's default option (if any).
(4) Section 609(a)(3)(C) of ERISA is satisfied because the Notice specifies that the period of coverage may only end for the alternate recipient(s) when
similarly situated dependents are no longer eligible for coverage under the terms of the plan, or upon the occurrence of certain specified events.
(d)(1) Under ERISA section 609(a)(4), a qualified medical child support order may not require a plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option, not otherwise provided under the plan, except to the extent necessary to meet the requirements of a law relating to medical child support described in section 1908 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1396g-1.
(2) The Notice satisfies the conditions of ERISA section 609(a)(4) because it requires the plan to provide to an alternate recipient only those benefits that the plan provides to any dependent of a participant who is enrolled in the plan, and any other benefits that are necessary to meet the requirements of a State law described in such section 1908.
(e) For the purposes of this section, an “Issuing Agency” is a State agency that administers the child support enforcement program under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act.
[65 FR 82142, Dec. 27, 2000]

# Subpart B—Health Coverage Portability, Nondiscrimination, and Renewability

# Source:
62 FR 16941, Apr. 8, 1997, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 65 FR 82142, Dec. 27, 2000.
§ 2590.701-1
Basis and scope.
(a)
Statutory basis.
This Subpart B implements Part 7 of Subtitle B of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (hereinafter ERISA or the Act).
(b)
Scope.
A group health plan or health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage may provide greater rights to participants and beneficiaries than those set forth in this Subpart B. This Subpart B sets forth minimum requirements for group health plans and group health insurance issuers offering group health insurance coverage concerning certain consumer protections of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), including special enrollment periods and the prohibition against discrimination based on a health factor, as amended by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act). Other consumer protection provisions, including other protections provided by the Affordable Care Act and the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act, are set forth in Subpart C of this part.
[69 FR 78763, Dec. 30, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 51683, Oct. 7, 2009; 79 FR 10308, Feb. 24, 2014]
§ 2590.701-2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise provided, the definitions in this section govern in applying the provisions of §§ 2590.701 through 2590.734.
Affiliation period
means a period of time that must expire before health insurance coverage provided by an HMO becomes effective, and during which the HMO is not required to provide benefits.
COBRA
definitions:
(1)
COBRA
means Title X of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.
(2)
COBRA continuation coverage
means coverage, under a group health plan, that satisfies an applicable COBRA continuation provision.
(3)
COBRA continuation provision
means sections 601-608 of the Act, section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code (other than paragraph (f)(1) of such section 4980B insofar as it relates to pediatric vaccines), or Title XXII of the PHS Act.
(4)
Exhaustion of COBRA continuation coverage
means that an individual's COBRA continuation coverage ceases for any reason other than either failure of the individual to pay premiums on a timely basis, or for cause (such as making a fraudulent claim or an intentional misrepresentation of a material fact in connection with the plan). An individual is considered to have exhausted COBRA continuation coverage if such coverage ceases—
(i) Due to the failure of the employer or other responsible entity to remit premiums on a timely basis;
(ii) When the individual no longer resides, lives, or works in the service area of an HMO or similar program
(whether or not within the choice of the individual) and there is no other COBRA continuation coverage available to the individual; or
(iii) When the individual incurs a claim that would meet or exceed a lifetime limit on all benefits and there is no other COBRA continuation coverage available to the individual.
Condition
means a
medical condition.
Creditable coverage
means
creditable coverage
within the meaning of § 2590.701-4(a).
Dependent
means any individual who is or may become eligible for coverage under the terms of a group health plan because of a relationship to a participant.
Enroll
means to become covered for benefits under a group health plan (that is, when coverage becomes effective), without regard to when the individual may have completed or filed any forms that are required in order to become covered under the plan. For this purpose, an individual who has health coverage under a group health plan is enrolled in the plan regardless of whether the individual elects coverage, the individual is a dependent who becomes covered as a result of an election by a participant, or the individual becomes covered without an election.
Enrollment date
means the first day of coverage or, if there is a waiting period, the first day of the waiting period. If an individual receiving benefits under a group health plan changes benefit packages, or if the plan changes group health insurance issuers, the individual's enrollment date does not change.
Excepted benefits
means the benefits described as excepted in § 2590.732(c).
First day of coverage
means, in the case of an individual covered for benefits under a group health plan, the first day of coverage under the plan and, in the case of an individual covered by health insurance coverage in the individual market, the first day of coverage under the policy or contract.
Genetic information
has the meaning given the term in § 2590.702-1(a)(3) of this Part.
Group health insurance coverage
means health insurance coverage offered in connection with a group health plan. Individual health insurance coverage reimbursed by the arrangements described in 29 CFR 2510.3-1(l) is not offered in connection with a group health plan, and is not group health insurance coverage, provided all the conditions in 29 CFR 2510.3-1(l) are satisfied.
Group health plan
or
plan
means a
group health plan
within the meaning of § 2590.732(a).
Group market
means the market for health insurance coverage offered in connection with a group health plan. (However, certain very small plans may be treated as being in the individual market, rather than the group market; see the definition of
individual market
in this section.)
Health insurance coverage
means benefits consisting of medical care (provided directly, through insurance or reimbursement, or otherwise) under any hospital or medical service policy or certificate, hospital or medical service plan contract, or HMO contract offered by a health insurance issuer. Health insurance coverage includes group health insurance coverage, individual health insurance coverage, and short-term, limited-duration insurance.
Health insurance issuer
or
issuer
means an insurance company, insurance service, or insurance organization (including an HMO) that is required to be licensed to engage in the business of insurance in a State and that is subject to State law that regulates insurance (within the meaning of section 514(b)(2) of the Act). Such term does not include a group health plan.
Health maintenance organization
or
HMO
means—
(1) A federally qualified health maintenance organization (as defined in section 1301(a) of the PHS Act);
(2) An organization recognized under State law as a health maintenance organization; or
(3) A similar organization regulated under State law for solvency in the same manner and to the same extent as such a health maintenance organization.
Individual health insurance coverage
means health insurance coverage offered to individuals in the individual market, but does not include short-term, limited-duration insurance. Individual health insurance coverage can include dependent coverage.
Individual market
means the market for health insurance coverage offered to individuals other than in connection with a group health plan. Unless a State elects otherwise in accordance with section 2791(e)(1)(B)(ii) of the PHS Act, such term also includes coverage offered in connection with a group health plan that has fewer than two participants who are current employees on the first day of the plan year.
Internal Revenue Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Title 26, United States Code).
Issuer
means a
health insurance issuer.
Late enrollee
means an individual whose enrollment in a plan is a late enrollment.
Late enrollment
means enrollment of an individual under a group health plan other than on the earliest date on which coverage can become effective for the individual under the terms of the plan; or through special enrollment. (For rules relating to special enrollment, see § 2590.701-6.) If an individual ceases to be eligible for coverage under a plan, and then subsequently becomes eligible for coverage under the plan, only the individual's most recent period of eligibility is taken into account in determining whether the individual is a late enrollee under the plan with respect to the most recent period of coverage. Similar rules apply if an individual again becomes eligible for coverage following a suspension of coverage that applied generally under the plan.
Medical care
means amounts paid for—
(1) The diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or amounts paid for the purpose of affecting any structure or function of the body;
(2) Transportation primarily for and essential to medical care referred to in paragraph (1) of this definition; and
(3) Insurance covering medical care referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition.
Medical condition
or
condition
means any condition, whether physical or mental, including, but not limited to, any condition resulting from illness, injury (whether or not the injury is accidental), pregnancy, or congenital malformation. However, genetic information is not a condition.
Participant
means
participant
within the meaning of section 3(7) of the Act.
Placement, or being placed, for adoption
means the assumption and retention of a legal obligation for total or partial support of a child by a person with whom the child has been placed in anticipation of the child's adoption. The child's placement for adoption with such person ends upon the termination of such legal obligation.
Plan year
means the year that is designated as the plan year in the plan document of a group health plan, except that if the plan document does not designate a plan year or if there is no plan document, the plan year is—
(1) The deductible or limit year used under the plan;
(2) If the plan does not impose deductibles or limits on a yearly basis, then the plan year is the policy year;
(3) If the plan does not impose deductibles or limits on a yearly basis, and either the plan is not insured or the insurance policy is not renewed on an annual basis, then the plan year is the employer's taxable year; or
(4) In any other case, the plan year is the calendar year.
Preexisting condition exclusion
means a limitation or exclusion of benefits (including a denial of coverage) based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage (or if coverage is denied, the date of the denial) under a group health plan or group or individual health insurance coverage (or other coverage provided to Federally eligible individuals pursuant to 45 CFR part 148), whether or not any medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was recommended or received before that day. A preexisting condition exclusion includes any limitation or exclusion of benefits (including a denial of coverage) applicable to an individual as a result of information relating to an individual's health status before the individual's effective date of coverage (or if coverage is denied, the date of the denial) under a group health plan, or group or individual health insurance coverage (or other coverage provided to Federally eligible individuals pursuant to 45 CFR part 148), such as a condition identified
as a result of a pre-enrollment questionnaire or physical examination given to the individual, or review of medical records relating to the pre-enrollment period.
Public health plan
means
public health plan
within the meaning of § 2590.701-4(a)(1)(ix).
Public Health Service Act (PHS Act)
means the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201,
et seq.
).
Short-term, limited-duration insurance
means health insurance coverage provided pursuant to a policy, certificate, or contract of insurance with an issuer that meets the conditions of paragraph (1) of this definition.
(1)
Short-term, limited-duration insurance
means health insurance coverage provided pursuant to a policy, certificate, or contract of insurance with an issuer that:
(i) Has an expiration date specified in the policy, certificate, or contract of insurance that is no more than 3 months after the original effective date of the policy, certificate, or contract of insurance, and taking into account any renewals or extensions, has a duration no longer than 4 months in total. For purposes of this paragraph (1)(i), a renewal or extension includes the term of a new short-term, limited-duration insurance policy, certificate, or contract of insurance issued by the same issuer, or if the issuer is a member of a controlled group, any other issuer that is a member of such controlled group, to the same policyholder within the 12-month period beginning on the original effective date of the initial policy, certificate, or contract of insurance; and
(ii) Displays prominently on the first page (in either paper or electronic form, including on a website) of the policy, certificate, or contract of insurance, and in any marketing, application, and enrollment materials (including reenrollment materials) provided to individuals at or before the time an individual has the opportunity to enroll (or reenroll) in the coverage, in at least 14-point font, the language in the following notice:
ER03AP24.062
(2) For purposes of paragraph (1)(i) of this definition, the term “controlled group” means any group treated as a single employer under section 52(a), 52(b), 414(m), or 414(o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(3) If any provision of this definition is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any entity or circumstance, or stayed pending further agency action, the provision shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, along with other provisions not found invalid or unenforceable, including as applied to entities not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances, unless such holding is that the provision is invalid
and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision shall be severable from the remainder of the definition and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
Significant break in coverage
means a
significant break in coverage
within the meaning of § 2590.701-4(b)(2)(iii).
Special enrollment
means enrollment in a group health plan or group health insurance coverage under the rights described in § 2590.701-6.
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
State health benefits risk pool
means a
State health benefits risk pool
within the meaning of § 2590.701-4(a)(1)(vii).
Travel insurance
means insurance coverage for personal risks incident to planned travel, which may include, but is not limited to, interruption or cancellation of trip or event, loss of baggage or personal effects, damages to accommodations or rental vehicles, and sickness, accident, disability, or death occurring during travel, provided that the health benefits are not offered on a stand-alone basis and are incidental to other coverage. For this purpose, the term travel insurance does not include major medical plans that provide comprehensive medical protection for travelers with trips lasting 6 months or longer, including, for example, those working overseas as an expatriate or military personnel being deployed.
Waiting period
means
waiting period
within the meaning of § 2590.715-2708(b).
[69 FR 78763, Dec. 30, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 51683, Oct. 7, 2009; 75 FR 37229, June 28, 2010; 79 FR 10308, Feb. 24, 2014; 80 FR 72256, Nov. 18, 2015; 81 FR 75325, Oct. 31, 2016; 83 FR 38242, Aug. 3, 2018; 84 FR 29001, June 20, 2019; 89 FR 23413, Apr. 3, 2024]
§ 2590.701-3
Limitations on preexisting condition exclusion period.
(a)
Preexisting condition exclusion defined.
(1) A
preexisting condition exclusion
means a
preexisting condition exclusion
within the meaning of § 2590.701-2.
(2)
Examples.
The rules of this paragraph (a)(1) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
(i)
Facts.
A group health plan provides benefits solely through an insurance policy offered by Issuer
S.
At the expiration of the policy, the plan switches coverage to a policy offered by Issuer
T.
Issuer
T
's policy excludes benefits for any prosthesis if the body part was lost before the effective date of coverage under the policy.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 1,
the exclusion of benefits for any prosthesis if the body part was lost before the effective date of coverage is a preexisting condition exclusion because it operates to exclude benefits for a condition based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage under the policy. The exclusion of benefits, therefore, is prohibited.

# Example 2.
(i)
Facts.
A group health plan provides coverage for cosmetic surgery in cases of accidental injury, but only if the injury occurred while the individual was covered under the plan.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 2,
the plan provision excluding cosmetic surgery benefits for individuals injured before enrolling in the plan is a preexisting condition exclusion because it operates to exclude benefits relating to a condition based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage. The plan provision, therefore, is prohibited.

# Example 3.
(i)
Facts.
A group health plan provides coverage for the treatment of diabetes, generally not subject to any requirement to obtain an approval for a treatment plan. However, if an individual was diagnosed with diabetes before the effective date of coverage under the plan, diabetes coverage is subject to a requirement to obtain approval of a treatment plan in advance.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 3,
the requirement to obtain advance approval of a treatment plan is a preexisting condition exclusion because it limits benefits for a condition based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage. The plan provision, therefore, is prohibited.

# Example 4.
(i)
Facts.
A group health plan provides coverage for three infertility treatments. The plan counts against the three-treatment limit benefits provided under prior health coverage.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 4,
counting benefits for a specific condition provided under prior health coverage against a treatment limit for that condition is a preexisting condition exclusion because it operates to limit benefits for a condition based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage. The plan provision, therefore, is prohibited.

# Example 5.
(i)
Facts.
When an individual's coverage begins under a group health plan, the individual generally becomes eligible for all benefits. However, benefits for pregnancy are not available until the individual has been covered under the plan for 12 months.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 5,
the requirement to be covered under the plan for 12 months to be eligible for pregnancy benefits is a subterfuge for a preexisting condition exclusion because it is designed to exclude benefits for a condition (pregnancy) that arose before the effective date of coverage. The plan provision, therefore, is prohibited.

# Example 6.
(i)
Facts.
A group health plan provides coverage for medically necessary items and services, generally including treatment of heart conditions. However, the plan does not cover those same items and services when used for treatment of congenital heart conditions.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 6,
the exclusion of coverage for treatment of congenital heart conditions is a preexisting condition exclusion because it operates to exclude benefits relating to a condition based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage. The plan provision, therefore, is prohibited.

# Example 7.
(i)
Facts.
A group health plan generally provides coverage for medically necessary items and services. However, the plan excludes coverage for the treatment of cleft palate.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 7,
the exclusion of coverage for treatment of cleft palate is not a preexisting condition exclusion because the exclusion applies regardless of when the condition arose relative to the effective date of coverage. The plan provision, therefore, is not prohibited. (But see 45 CFR 147.150, which may require coverage of cleft palate as an essential health benefit for health insurance coverage in the individual or small group market, depending on the essential health benefits benchmark plan as defined in 45 CFR 156.20).

# Example 8.
(i)
Facts.
A group health plan provides coverage for treatment of cleft palate, but only if the individual being treated has been continuously covered under the plan from the date of birth.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 8,
the exclusion of coverage for treatment of cleft palate for individuals who have not been covered under the plan from the date of birth operates to exclude benefits in relation to a condition based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage. The plan provision, therefore, is prohibited.
(b)
General rules. See
§ 2590.715-2704 for rules prohibiting the imposition of a preexisting condition exclusion.
[69 FR 78763, Dec. 30, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 37229, June 28, 2010; 79 FR 10308, Feb. 24, 2014; 80 FR 72256, Nov. 18, 2015]
§ 2590.701-4
Rules relating to creditable coverage.
(a)
General rules
—(1)
Creditable coverage.
For purposes of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the term
creditable coverage
means coverage of an individual under any of the following:
(i) A group health plan as defined in § 2590.732(a).
(ii) Health insurance coverage as defined in § 2590.701-2 (whether or not the entity offering the coverage is subject to Part 7 of Subtitle B of Title I of the Act, and without regard to whether the coverage is offered in the group market, the individual market, or otherwise).
(iii) Part A or B of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare).
(iv) Title XIX of the Social Security Act (Medicaid), other than coverage consisting solely of benefits under section 1928 of the Social Security Act (the program for distribution of pediatric vaccines).
(v) Title 10 U.S.C. Chapter 55 (medical and dental care for members and certain former members of the uniformed services, and for their dependents; for purposes of Title 10 U.S.C. Chapter 55,
uniformed services
means the armed forces and the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and of the Public Health Service).
(vi) A medical care program of the Indian Health Service or of a tribal organization.
(vii) A State health benefits risk pool. For purposes of this section, a
State health benefits risk pool
means—
(A) An organization qualifying under section 501(c)(26) of the Internal Revenue Code;
(B) A qualified high risk pool described in section 2744(c)(2) of the PHS Act; or
(C) Any other arrangement sponsored by a State, the membership composition of which is specified by the State and which is established and maintained primarily to provide health coverage for individuals who are residents of such State and who, by reason of the existence or history of a medical condition—
(
1
) Are unable to acquire medical care coverage for such condition through insurance or from an HMO, or
(
2
) Are able to acquire such coverage only at a rate which is substantially in excess of the rate for such coverage through the membership organization.
(viii) A health plan offered under Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 89 (the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program).
(ix) A public health plan. For purposes of this section, a
public health plan
means any plan established or maintained by a State, the U.S. government, a foreign country, or any political subdivision of a State, the U.S. government, or a foreign country that provides health coverage to individuals who are enrolled in the plan.
(x) A health benefit plan under section 5(e) of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2504(e)).
(xi) Title XXI of the Social Security Act (State Children's Health Insurance Program).
(2)
Excluded coverage.
Creditable coverage does not include coverage of solely excepted benefits (described in § 2590.732).
(b)
Counting creditable coverage rules superseded by prohibition on preexisting condition exclusion. See
§ 2590.715-2704 for rules prohibiting the imposition of a preexisting condition exclusion.
[69 FR 78763, Dec. 30, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 10309, Feb. 24, 2014]
§ 2590.701-5
Evidence of creditable coverage.
(a)
In general.
The rules for providing certificates of creditable coverage and demonstrating creditable coverage have been superseded by the prohibition on preexisting condition exclusions.
See
§ 2590.715-2704 for rules prohibiting the imposition of a preexisting condition exclusion.
(b)
Applicability.
The provisions of this section apply beginning December 31, 2014.
[79 FR 10309, Feb. 24, 2014]
§ 2590.701-6
Special enrollment periods.
(a)
Special enrollment for certain individuals who lose coverage
—(1)
In general.
A group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering health insurance coverage in connection with a group health plan, is required to permit current employees and dependents (as defined in § 2590.701-2) who are described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to enroll for coverage under the terms of the plan if the conditions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section are satisfied. The special enrollment rights under this paragraph (a) apply without regard to the dates on which an individual would otherwise be able to enroll under the plan.
(2)
Individuals eligible for special enrollment
—(i)
When employee loses coverage.
A current employee and any dependents (including the employee's spouse) each are eligible for special enrollment in any benefit package under the plan (subject to plan eligibility rules conditioning dependent enrollment on enrollment of the employee) if—
(A) The employee and the dependents are otherwise eligible to enroll in the benefit package;
(B) When coverage under the plan was previously offered, the employee had coverage under any group health plan or health insurance coverage; and
(C) The employee satisfies the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section and, if applicable, paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section.
(ii)
When dependent loses coverage
. (A) A dependent of a current employee (including the employee's spouse) and the employee each are eligible for special enrollment in any benefit package under the plan (subject to plan eligibility rules conditioning dependent enrollment on enrollment of the employee) if—
(
1
) The dependent and the employee are otherwise eligible to enroll in the benefit package;
(
2
) When coverage under the plan was previously offered, the dependent had coverage under any group health plan or health insurance coverage; and
(
3
) The dependent satisfies the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section and, if applicable, paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section.
(B) However, the plan or issuer is not required to enroll any other dependent unless that dependent satisfies the criteria of this paragraph (a)(2)(ii), or the employee satisfies the criteria of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Examples.
The rules of this paragraph (a)(2) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
(i)
Facts.
Individual
A
works for Employer
X. A
,
A
's spouse, and
A
's dependent children are eligible but not enrolled for coverage under
X
's group health plan.
A
's spouse works for Employer
Y
and at the time coverage was offered under
X
's plan,
A
was enrolled in coverage under
Y
's plan. Then,
A
loses eligibility for coverage under
Y
's plan.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 1,
because
A
satisfies the conditions for special enrollment under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section,
A
,
A
's spouse, and
A
's dependent children are eligible for special enrollment under
X
's plan.

# Example 2.
(i)
Facts.
Individual
A
and
A
's spouse are eligible but not enrolled for coverage under Group Health Plan
P
maintained by
A
's employer. When
A
was first presented with an opportunity to enroll
A
and
A
's spouse, they did not have other coverage. Later,
A
and
A
's spouse enroll in Group Health Plan
Q
maintained by the employer of
A
's spouse. During a subsequent open enrollment period in
P
,
A
and
A
's spouse did not enroll because of their coverage under
Q.
They then lose eligibility for coverage under
Q.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 2
, because
A
and
A
's spouse were covered under
Q
when they did not enroll in
P
during open enrollment, they satisfy the conditions for special enrollment under paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. Consequently,
A
and
A
's spouse are eligible for special enrollment under
P.

# Example 3.
(i)
Facts.
Individual
B
works for Employer
X.
B
and
B
's spouse are eligible but not enrolled for coverage under
X
's group health plan.
B
's spouse works for Employer
Y
and at the time coverage was offered under
X
's plan,
B
's spouse was enrolled in self-only coverage under
Y
's group health plan. Then,
B
's spouse loses eligibility for coverage under
Y
's plan.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 3
, because
B
's spouse satisfies the conditions for special enrollment under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, both
B
and
B
's spouse are eligible for special enrollment under
X
's plan.

# Example 4.
(i)
Facts.
Individual
A
works for Employer
X.
X
maintains a group health plan with two benefit packages—an HMO option and an indemnity option. Self-only and family coverage are available under both options.
A
enrolls for self-only coverage in the HMO option.
A
's spouse works for Employer
Y
and was enrolled for self-only coverage under
Y
's plan at the time coverage was offered under
X
's plan. Then,
A
's spouse loses coverage under
Y
's plan.
A
requests special enrollment for
A
and
A
's spouse under the plan's indemnity option.
(ii)
Conclusion.
In this
Example 4,
because
A
's spouse satisfies the conditions for special enrollment under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, both
A
and
A
's spouse can enroll in either benefit package under
X
's plan. Therefore, if
A
requests enrollment in accordance with the requirements of this section, the plan must allow
A
and
A
's spouse to enroll in the indemnity option.
(3)
Conditions for special enrollment
—(i)
Loss of eligibility for coverage.
In the case of an employee or dependent who has coverage that is not COBRA continuation coverage, the conditions of this paragraph (a)(3)(i) are satisfied at the time the coverage is terminated as a result of loss of eligibility (regardless of whether the individual is eligible for or elects COBRA continuation coverage). Loss of eligibility under this paragraph (a)(3)(i) does not include a loss due to the failure of the employee or dependent to pay premiums on a timely basis or termination of coverage for cause (such as making a fraudulent claim or an intentional misrepresentation of a material fact in connection with the plan). Loss of eligibility for coverage under this paragraph (a)(3)(i) includes (but is not limited to)—
(A) Loss of eligibility for coverage as a result of legal separation, divorce, cessation of dependent status (such as attaining the maximum age to be eligible as a dependent child under the plan), death of an employee, termination of employment, reduction in the number of hours of employment, and any loss of eligibility for coverage after a period that is measured by reference to any of the foregoing;
(B) In the case of coverage offered through an HMO, or other arrangement, in the individual market that does not provide benefits to individuals who no longer reside, live, or work in a service area, loss of coverage because an individual no longer resides, lives, or works in the service area (whether or not within the choice of the individual);
(C) In the case of coverage offered through an HMO, or other arrangement, in the group market that does not provide benefits to individuals who no longer reside, live, or work in a service area, loss of coverage because an individual no longer resides, lives, or works in the service area (whether
or not within the choice of the individual), and no other benefit package is available to the individual; and
(D) A situation in which a plan no longer offers any benefits to the class of similarly situated individuals (as described in § 2590.702(d)) that includes the individual.
(ii)
Termination of employer contributions.
In the case of an employee or dependent who has coverage that is not COBRA continuation coverage, the conditions of this paragraph (a)(3)(ii) are satisfied at the time employer contributions towards the employee's or dependent's coverage terminate. Employer contributions include contributions by any current or former employer that was contributing to coverage for the employee or dependent.
(iii)
Exhaustion of COBRA continuation coverage.
In the case of an employee or dependent who has coverage that is COBRA continuation coverage, the conditions of this paragraph (a)(3)(iii) are satisfied at the time the COBRA continuation coverage is exhausted. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3)(iii), an individual who satisfies the conditions for special enrollment of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, does not enroll, and instead elects and exhausts COBRA continuation coverage satisfies the conditions of this paragraph (a)(3)(iii). (
Exhaustion of COBRA continuation coverage
is defined in § 2590.701-2.)
(iv)
Written statement.
