means the Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Basic roll
means the specified allotment, annuity, census or other roll designated in the Act or Plan as the basis upon which a new roll is to be compiled.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Descendant(s)
means those persons who are the issue of the ancestor through whom enrollment rights are claimed; namely, the children, grandchildren, etc. It does not include collateral relatives such as brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, cousins, etc. or adopted children, grandchildren, etc.
Director
means the Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs area office which has administrative jurisdiction over the local field office responsible for administering the affairs of the tribe, band, or group for which a roll is being prepared or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Enrollee(s)
means persons who have met specific requirements for enrollment and whose names appear on a particular roll of Indians.
Lineal ancestor
means an ancestor, living or deceased, who is related to a person by direct ascent; namely, the parent, grandparent, etc. It does not include collateral relatives such as brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, etc., or adopted parents, grandparents, etc.
Living
means born on or before and alive on the date specified.
Plan
means any effective plan prepared under the provisions of the Act of October 19, 1973, Pub. L. 93-134, 87 Stat. 466, as amended, which authorizes and directs the Secretary to prepare a roll of a specific tribe, band, or group of Indians.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Interior or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Sponsor
means any person who files an application for enrollment or appeal on behalf of another person.
Staff Officer
means the Enrollment Officer or other person authorized to prepare the roll.
Superintendent
means the official or other designated representative of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in charge of the field office which has immediate administrative responsibility for the affairs of the tribe, band, or group for which a roll is being prepared.
Tribal Committee
means the body of a federally recognized tribal entity vested with final authority to act on enrollment matters.
Tribal Governing Document
means the written organizational statement governing the tribe, band, or group of Indians and/or any valid document, enrollment ordinance, or resolution enacted thereunder.
§ 61.2
Purpose.
The regulations in this part 61 are to govern the compilation of rolls of Indians by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to statutory authority. The regulations are not to apply in the compilation of tribal membership rolls where the responsibility for the preparation and maintenance of such rolls rests with the tribes.
§ 61.3
Information collection.
The Office of Management and Budget has reviewed and approved the information collection for § 61.4(k). The OMB Control Number assigned is 1076-0165. A federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.
[72 FR 9840, Mar. 5, 2007]
§ 61.4
Qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms.
(a) The qualifications which must be met to establish eligibility for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms will be included in this part 61 by appropriate amendments to this section;
except that,
when an Act or Plan states the qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms and specifies that the regulations contained in this part 61 will apply, amendment to this section will not be required for the procedures contained in this part 61 to govern the preparation of the roll;
provided further,
the provisions contained in this part 61 that were in effect when the regulations were amended to include paragraphs (r), (s), (w), (x), (y), and (z) shall control the preparation of the rolls under paragraphs (r), (s), (w), (x), (y), and (z) of this section.
(b)
Pembina Band of Chippewa Indians.
(1) Pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act of December 31, 1982, Pub. L. 97-403, 96 Stat. 2022, a roll is to be prepared and used as the basis for the distribution of an apportioned share of judgment funds awarded the Pembina Chippewa Indians in dockets numbered 113, 191, 221 and 246 of the Court of Claims of all persons who:
(i) Are of at least
1/4
degree Pembina Chippewa blood;
(ii) Are citizens of the United States;
(iii) Were living on December 31, 1982;
(iv) Are not members of the Red Lake Band of Chippewa Indians, the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians, the Chippewa Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy's Reservation, or Minnesota Chippewa Tribe, or the Little Shell Band of Chippewa Indians of Montana;
and
(v) Are enrolled or are lineal descendants of persons enrolled:
(A) As Pembina descendants under the provisions of the Act of July 29, 1971 (85 Stat. 158), for the disposition of the 1863 Pembina Award, or
(B) On the McCumber roll of the Turtle Mountain Indians of 1892, or
(C) On the Davis roll of the Turtle Mountain Indians of 1904; or
(D) As Chippewa on the tentative roll of the Rocky Boy Indians of May 30, 1917, or the McLaughlin census report of the Rocky Boy Indians of July 7, 1917, or the Roe Cloud Roll of Landless Indians of Montana;
or
(vi) Are able to establish Pembina ancestry on the basis of any other rolls or records acceptable to the Secretary.
(2) Application forms for eligibility must be filed with the Superintendent, Turtle Mountain Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Belcourt, North Dakota 58316, by March 10, 1986. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for eligibility.
(3) Each application for enrollment as a member of any of the tribes specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, except the Red Lake Band of Chippewa Indians, which may be rejected by the tribes shall be reviewed by the Superintendent to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications for eligibility as a descendant of the Pembina Band of Chippewas under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Each rejection notice shall contain a statement to the effect that the application is being given such review.
(c)
Cherokee Band of Shawnee Indians.
(1) Pursuant to section 5 of the Act of December 20, 1982, Pub. L. 97-372, 96 Stat. 1815, a roll is to be prepared and used as the basis for the distribution of an apportioned share of judgment funds awarded the Shawnee Tribe in dockets 64, 335, and 338 by the Indian Claims Commission and in docket 64-A by the U.S. Court of Claims of all persons of Cherokee Shawnee ancestry:
(i) Who were living on December 20, 1982;
(ii) Who are lineal descendants of the Shawnee Nation as it existed in 1854, based on the roll of the Cherokee Shawnee compiled pursuant to the Act of March 2, 1889 (25 Stat. 994), or any other records acceptable to the Secretary including eligibility to share in the distribution of judgment funds awarded the Absentee Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma on behalf of the Shawnee Nation in Indian Claims Commission docket 334-B as a Cherokee Shawnee descendant;
and
(iii) Who are not members of the Absentee Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma or the Eastern Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma.
(2) Application forms for enrollment must be filed with the Director, Muskogee Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Federal Building, Muskogee, Oklahoma 74401, by May 9, 1986. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for inclusion on the roll being prepared for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment.
(d)
Miami Indians of Indiana.
(1) Pursuant to section 3 of the Act of December 21, 1982, Pub. L. 97-376, 96 Stat. 1828, a roll is to be prepared and used as the basis for the distribution of an apportioned share of judgment funds awarded the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma and the Miami Indians of Indiana in dockets 124-B and 254 by the U.S. Court of Claims of all persons of Miami Indian ancestry:
(i) Who were living on December 21, 1982;
(ii) Whose name or the name of a lineal ancestor appears on:
(A) The roll of Miami Indians of Oklahoma and Indiana prepared pursuant to the Act of June 2, 1972 (86 Stat. 199), or
(B) The roll of Miami Indians of Indiana of June 12, 1895, or
(C) The roll of “Miami Indians of Indiana, now living in Kansas, Quapaw Agency, I.T., and Oklahoma Territory,” prepared and completed pursuant to the Act of March 2, 1895 (28 Stat. 903), or
(D) The roll of the Eel River Miami Tribe of Indians of May 27, 1889, prepared and completed pursuant to the Act of June 29, 1888 (25 Stat. 223), or
(E) The roll of the Western Miami Tribe of Indians of June 12, 1891 (26 Stat. 1001);
and
(iii) Who are not members of the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma.
(2) Application forms for enrollment must be filed with the Director, Muskogee Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Federal Building, Muskogee, Oklahoma 74401, by May 9, 1986. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for inclusion on the roll being prepared for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment.
(e)
Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians.
(1) Pursuant to section 5 of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians Distribution of Judgment Funds Act of October 26, 1987, Pub. L. 100-139, a tribal membership roll is to be prepared comprised of all persons who are able to establish that they are of Cow Creek or other Indian ancestry indigenous to the United States based on any rolls or records acceptable to the Secretary and were not members of any other Federally recognized Indian tribe on July 30, 1987; and:
(i) Who are named on the tribal roll dated September 13, 1980, the so-called Interrogatory No. 14 roll;
(ii) Who are descendants of individuals named on the tribal roll dated September 13, 1980, the so-called Interrogatory No. 14 roll, and were born on or prior to October 26, 1987; or
(iii) Who are descendants of individuals who were considered to be members of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians for the purposes of the treaty entered between such Band and the United States on September 19, 1853.
(2) Application forms for enrollment must be filed with the Superintendent, Siletz Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O. Box 539, Siletz, Oregon 97380 by June 1, 1990. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for inclusion on the tribal membership roll for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment.
(f)
Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians descendants.
(1) Pursuant to section 6(a)(1) of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians Distribution of Judgment Funds Act of October 26, 1987, Pub. L. 100-139, a roll of nontribal members eligible to participate in the Higher Education and Vocational Training Program and the Housing Assistance Program of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians is to be prepared of individuals:
(i) Who are descended from persons considered members of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians for purposes of the treaty entered into between such band and the United States on September 19, 1853 (10 Stat. 1027), as ratified by the Senate on April 12, 1854; and
(ii) Who did not share or are not descendants of persons who shared in the distribution of funds under the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the termination of Federal supervision over the property of the Klamath Tribe of Indians located in the State of Oregon and the individuals members thereof, and for other purposes,” approved August 13, 1954 (25 U.S.C. 564
et seq.
), or under the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the termination of Federal supervision over the property of certain tribes and bands of Indians located in western Oregon and the individual members thereof, and for other purposes,” approved August 13, 1954 (25 U.S.C. 691
et seq.
).
(2) Application forms for enrollment must be filed with the Superintendent, Siletz Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P. O. Box 539, Siletz, Oregon 97380. Upon receipt of an application form, the Superintendent shall furnish a copy to the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians.
(g)
Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians descendants.
(1) Pursuant to section 6(a)(2) of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians Distribution of Judgment Funds Act of October 26, 1987, Pub. L. 100-139, a roll of nontribal members eligible to participate in the Elderly Assistance Program of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians is to be prepared of individuals:
(i) Who are descended from persons considered members of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians for purposes of the treaty entered into between such Band and the United States on September 19, 1853 (10 Stat. 1027), as ratified by the Senate on April 12, 1854;
(ii) Who did not share or are not descendants of persons who shared in the distribution of funds under the Act entitled “An act to provide for the termination of Federal supervision over the property of the Klamath Tribe of Indians located in the State of Oregon and the individual members thereof, and for other purposes,” approved August 13, 1954 (25 U.S.C. 564
et seq.
), or under the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the termination of Federal supervision over the property of certain tribes and bands of Indians located in western Oregon and the individual members thereof, and for other purposes,” approved August 13, 1954 (25 U.S.C. 691
et seq.
); and
(iii) Who were 50 years or older as of December 31, 1985.
(2) Application forms for enrollment must be filed with the Superintendent, Siletz Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P. O. Box 539, Siletz, Oregon 97380 by April 25, 1988, and with the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for eligibility for inclusion on the roll of persons eligible to participate in the Elderly Assistance Program, but will be considered for inclusion on the roll of persons eligible to participate in the Higher Education and Vocation Training Program and the Housing Assistance Program. Upon receipt of an application form, the Superintendent shall furnish a copy to the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians.
(h)
Indians of the Hoopa Valley Indian Reservation.
Pursuant to section 5 of the Hoopa-Yurok Settlement Act of October 31, 1988, Pub. L. 100-580, a roll
of Indians of the Reservation eligible to participate in certain settlement provisions is to be prepared of all persons:
(1) Who were born on or prior to and living on October 31, 1988; and
(2) Who are citizens of the United States; and
(3) Who were not, on August 8, 1988, enrolled members of the Hoopa Valley Tribe; and
(4) Who meet the criteria to qualify as an “Indian of the Reservation” under one of the following standards established by the U.S. Court of Claims in its March 31, 1982, decision, and the United States Claims Court in its May 14, 1987, and March 1, 1988, decisions in the cases of
Short
v.
United States,
(Cl. Ct. No. 102-63):
(i) Standards A-E which are:
(A) Allottees of land on any part of the Reservation, living on October 1, 1949, and lineal descendants of allottees living on October 1, 1949;
(B) Persons living on October 1, 1949, and resident on the reservation at that time, who have received Reservation benefits or services, and hold an assignment, or can make other proof that though eligible to receive an allotment, they have not been allotted, and the lineal descendants of such persons, living on October 1, 1949;
(C) Persons living on June 2, 1953, who have at least
1/4
degree Reservation blood, as defined in paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section, have forebears born on the Reservation and were resident on the Reservation for 15 years prior to June 2, 1953;
(D) Persons of at least
1/4
degree Indian blood, born after October 1, 1949, and before August 9, 1963, to a parent who is or would have been, when alive a qualified Indian of the Reservation under the standards in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) (A), (B) and (C) of this section, or has previously been held entitled to recover in the
Short
cases;
(E) Persons born on or after August 9, 1963, who are of at least
1/4
degree Indian blood, derived exclusively from the qualified parent or parents who is or would have been, when alive, a qualified Indian of the Reservation under the standards in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) (A), (B) and (C) of this section, or has previously been held entitled to recover in the
Short
cases; or
(ii) Manifest Injustice Standard which is: Persons who do not qualify under the standards in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, but who it would be manifestly unjust to exclude from enrollment. To qualify under the manifest injustice standard, persons must adequately demonstrate all of the following:
(A) A significant degree of Indian blood (at least
1/4
degree Indian blood, and
(B) Personal connections to the Reservation shown through a substantial period of residence on the Reservation (nearly ten years of residence), and
(C) Personal ties to the land of the Reservation and/or ties to the land through a lineal ancestor; and
(5) Who file or have filed on their behalf application forms for enrollment with the Superintendent, Northern California Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O. Box 494879, Redding, California 96049, by April 10, 1989. Applications filed after that date will not be considered for inclusion on the roll regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment, except for plaintiffs determined to be an “Indian of the Reservation” in the
Short
cases, who will, if they otherwise meet the requirements of the Act, be included on the roll.
(6) As used in paragraph (h) of this section:
(i)
Reservation blood
means the blood of the following tribes or bands: Yurok; Hoopa/Hupa; Grouse Creek; Hunstand/Hoonsotton/Hoonsolton; Miskut/Miscotts/Miscolts; Redwood/Chilula; Saiaz/Nongatl/Siahs; Sermaltion; South Fork; Tish-tang-atan; Karok; Tolowa; Sinkyone/Sinkiene; Wailake/Wylacki; Wiyot/Humboldt; and Wintun.
(ii)
Short
cases means the cases entitled
Jessie Short et al.
v.
United States,
(Cl. Ct. No. 102-63);
Charlene Ackley
v.
United States,
(Cl. Ct. No. 460-78);
Bret Aastadt
v.
United States,
(Cl. Ct. No. 146-85L); and
Norman Giffen
v.
United States,
(Cl. Ct. No. 746-85L).
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Coquille Tribe of Indians.
(1) Pursuant to section 7 of the Coquille Restoration Act of June 28, 1989, Pub. L. 101-42, a tribal membership roll is to be
prepared comprised of persons of Coquille Indian ancestry:
(i) Who were born on or before and living on June 28, 1989;
(ii) Who possess at least one-eighth (
1/8
) degree or more Indian blood;
(iii) Who are not enrolled members of another federally recognized tribe; and
(iv) Whose names were listed on the Coquille roll prepared pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1954 (68 Stat. 979; 25 U.S.C. 771), and approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs on August 29, 1960;
(v) Whose names were not listed on but who met the requirements to be listed on the Coquille roll prepared pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1954, and approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs on August 29, 1960; or
(vi) Who are lineal descendants of persons, living or dead, identified in paragraphs (j)(1)(iv) and (j)(1)(v) of this section.
(2) To establish eligibility for inclusion on the tribal membership roll, all persons must file an application form with the Superintendent, Siletz Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O. Box 539, Siletz, Oregon 97380 by January 10, 1991. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for inclusion on the roll being prepared for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment.
(3) For the purposes of establishing eligibility under paragraph (j) of this section, any available evidence establishing Coquille ancestry and the required degree of Indian blood shall be accepted. However, information shown on the Coquille roll prepared pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1954, shall be accepted as conclusive evidence of Coquille ancestry and blood degree information shown on the January 1, 1940, census roll of nonreservation Indians of the Grand Ronde-Siletz Agency shall be accepted as conclusive evidence in determining degree of Indian blood for applicants.
(4) For the purposes of establishing eligibility under paragraph (j) of this section, persons who may be enrolled members of another federally recognized tribe or tribes may submit a conditional relinquishment of membership document in the other tribe or tribes with their application forms. A conditional relinquishment of membership document in the other tribe or tribes with their application forms. A conditional relinquishment will be accepted by the Superintendent only if it is executed by the person himself or herself unless the person is legally incompetent, in which case the legal guardian and only the legal guardian may execute the conditional relinquishment document. In the case of minors, only the parent or legal guardian may execute a conditional relinquishment document.
(k)
Western Shoshone Identifiable Group of Indians.
(1) Under section 3(b)(1) of the Act of July 7, 2004, Pub. L. 108-270, 118 Stat. 805, the Secretary will prepare a roll of all individuals who meet the eligibility criteria established under the Act and who file timely applications prior to a date that will be established by a notice published in the
Federal Register.
The roll will be used as the basis for distributing the judgment funds awarded by the Indian Claims Commission to the Western Shoshone Identifiable Group of Indians in Docket No. 326-K. To be eligible a person must:
(i) Have at least
1/4
degree of Western Shoshone blood;
(ii) Be living on July 7, 2004;
(iii) Be a citizen of the United States; and
(iv) Not be certified by the Secretary to be eligible to receive a per capita payment from any other judgment fund based on an aboriginal land claim awarded by the Indian Claims Commission, the United States Claims Court, or the United States Court of Federal Claims, that was appropriated on or before July 7, 2004.
(2) Indian census rolls prepared by the Agents or Superintendents at Carson or Western Shoshone Agencies between the years of 1885 and 1940, and other documents acceptable to the Secretary will be used in establishing proof of eligibility of an individual to:
(i) Be listed on the judgment roll; and
(ii) Receive a per capita payment under the Western Shoshone Claims Distribution Act.
(3) Application forms for enrollment must be mailed to Tribal Government Services, BIA-Western Shoshone, Post
Office Box 3838, Phoenix, Arizona 85030-3838.
(4) The application period will remain open until further notice.
(l)-(q) [Reserved]
(r)
Mdewakanton and Wahpakoota Tribe of Sioux Indians.
(1) All lineal descendants of the Mdewakanton and Wahpakoota Tribe of Sioux Indians who were born on or prior to and were living on October 25, 1972, whose names or the name of a lineal ancestor appears on any available records and rolls acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior and who are not members of the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe of South Dakota, the Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska, the Lower Sioux Indian Community at Morton, Minn., the Prairie Island Indian Community at Welch, Minn., or the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community of Minnesota shall be entitled to be enrolled under title I, section 101(b) of the act of October 25, 1972 (86 Stat. 1168), to share in the distribution of funds derived from a judgment awarded the Mississippi Sioux Indians.
(2) Applications for enrollment must have been filed with the Director, Aberdeen Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 820 South Main Street, Aberdeen, S. Dak. 57401, and must have been received no later than November 1, 1973. Applications received after that date will be denied for failure to file in time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment.
(3) Each application for enrollment with any of the tribes named in paragraph (r)(1) of this section which may be rejected by the tribes shall be reviewed by the Director to determine whether the applicant meets the requirements for enrollment as a descendant of the Mdewakanton and Wahpakoota Tribe of Sioux Indians under paragraph (r)(1) of this section. Each rejection notice issued by the tribes shall contain a statement to the effect that the application is being given such review.
(s)
Sisseton and Wahpeton Mississippi Sioux Tribe.
(1) Persons meeting the criteria in this paragraph are entitled to enroll under 25 U.S.C. 1300d-3(b) to share in the distribution of certain funds derived from a judgment awarded to the Mississippi Sioux Indians. To be eligible a person must:
(i) Be a lineal descendent of the Sisseton and Wahpeton Mississippi Sioux Tribe;
(A) Those individuals who applied for enrollment before January 1, 1998, and whose applications were approved by the Aberdeen Area Director before that same date, are deemed to appear in records and rolls acceptable to the Secretary or have a lineal ancestor whose name appears in these records;
(B) Those individuals who apply for enrollment after January 1, 1998, or whose application was not approved by the Aberdeen Area Director before that same date, must be able to trace ancestry to a specific Sisseton or Wahpeton Mississippi Sioux Tribe lineal ancestor who was listed on:
(
1
) The 1909 Sisseton and Wahpeton annuity roll;
(
2
) The list of Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux prisoners convicted for participating in the outbreak referred to as the “1862 Minnesota Outbreak”;
(
3
) The list of Sioux scouts, soldiers, and heirs identified as Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux on the roll prepared under the Act of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 989
et seq.,
Chapter 543); or
(
4
) Any other Sisseton or Wahpeton payment or census roll that preceded a roll referred to in paragraphs (s)(1)(i)(B)(
1
), (
2
), or (
3
) of this section.
(ii) Be living on October 25, 1972;
(iii) Be a citizen of the United States;
(iv) Not be listed on the membership rolls for the following tribes:
(A) The Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe of South Dakota;
(B) The Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska;
(C) The Lower Sioux Indian Community at Morton, Minnesota;
(D) The Prairie Island Indian Community at Welch, Minnesota;
(E) The Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community of Minnesota;
(F) The Spirit Lake Tribe (formerly known as the Devils Lake Sioux of North Dakota);
(G) The Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe of South Dakota; or
(H) The Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of the Fort Peck Reservation.
(v) Not be listed on the roll of Mdewakantan and Wahpakoota lineal
descendants prepared under 25 U.S.C. 1300d-1(b).
(2) The initial enrollment application period that closed on November 1, 1973, is reopened as of May 24, 1999. The application period will remain open until further notice.
(t)-(v) [Reserved]
(w)
Lower Skagit Tribe of Indians.
(1) All persons of Lower Skagit ancestry born on or prior to and living on February 18, 1975, who are lineal descendants of a member of the tribe as it existed in 1859 based on the 1919 Roblin Roll and other records acceptable to the Assistant Secretary, shall be entitled to have their names placed on the roll, to be prepared and used as the basis to distribute the judgment funds awarded the Lower Skagit Tribe in Indian Claims Commission docket 294. Proof of Upper Skagit ancestry will not be acceptable as proof of Lower Skagit ancestry.
(2) Applications for enrollment must have been filed with the Superintendent, Puget Sound Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 3006 Colby Avenue, Everett, Washington 88201, and must have been received by close of business on May 31, 1977. Applications received after that date will be denied for failure to file in time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment.
(3) Payment of shares will be made in accordance with parts 87 and 115 of this chapter.
(x)
Kikiallus Tribe of Indians.
(1) All persons of Kikiallus ancestry born on or prior to and living on February 18, 1975, who are lineal descendants of a member of the tribe as it existed in 1859 based on the 1919 Roblin Roll and other records acceptable to the Assistant Secretary, shall be entitled to have their names placed on the roll, to be prepared and used as the basis to distribute the judgment funds awarded the Kikiallus Tribe in Indian Claims Commission docket 263.
(2) Applications for enrollment must have been filed with the Superintendent, Puget Sound Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 3006 Colby Avenue, Everett, Washington 98021, and must have been received by close of business on May 31, 1977. Applications received after that date will be denied for failure to file in time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment.
(3) Payment of shares will be made in accordance with parts 87 and 115 of this chapter.
(y)
Swinomish Tribe of Indians.
(1) All persons of Swinomish ancestry born on or prior to and living on December 10, 1975, who are lineal descendants of a member of the tribe as it existed in 1859 based on the 1919 Roblin Roll and other records acceptable to the Assistant Secretary, shall be entitled to have their names placed on the roll, to be prepared and used as the basis to distribute the judgment funds awarded the Swinomish Tribe in Indian Claims Commission docket 233.
(2) Application for enrollment must have been filed with the Superintendent, Puget Sound Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 3006 Colby Avenue, Everett, Washington 98201, and must have been received by close of business on May 31, 1977. Applications received after that date will be denied for failure to file in time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment.
(3) Payment of shares will be made in accordance with parts 87 and 115 of this chapter.
(z)
Samish Tribe of Indians.
(1) All persons of Samish ancestry born on or prior to and living on December 10, 1975, who are lineal descendants of a member of the tribe as it existed in 1859 based on any records acceptable to the Secretary, shall be entitled to have their names placed on the roll to be prepared and used as the basis to distribute the judgment funds awarded the Samish Tribe in Indian Claims Commission docket 261.
(2) Applications for enrollment must have been filed with the Superintendent, Puget Sound Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 3006 Colby Avenue, Everett, Washington 98201, and must have been received by close of business on May 31, 1977. Applicants received after that date will be denied for failure to file in time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment.
(3) Payment of shares will be made in accordance with parts 87 and 115 of this chapter.
[50 FR 46430, Nov. 8, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 11272, Apr. 6, 1988; 54 FR 14193, Apr. 7, 1989; 55 FR 7494, Mar. 2, 1990; 55 FR 41519, Oct. 12, 1990; 56 FR 10806, Mar. 14, 1991; 64 FR 19898, Apr. 23, 1999; 72 FR 9840, Mar. 5, 2007]
§ 61.5
Notices.
(a) The Director or Superintendent shall give notice to all Directors of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and all Superintendents within the jurisdiction of the Director, of the preparation of the roll for public display in Bureau field offices. Reasonable efforts shall be made to place notices for public display in community buildings, tribal buildings, and Indian centers.
(b) The Director or Superintendent shall, on the basis of available residence data, publish, and republish when advisable, notices of the preparation of the roll in appropriate locales utilizing media suitable to the circumstances.
(c) The Director or Superintendent shall, when applicable, mail notices of the preparation of the roll to previous enrollees or tribal members at the last address of record or in the case of tribal members, the last address available.
(d) Notices shall advise of the preparation of the roll and the relevant procedures to be followed including the qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms to be eligible for enrollment. The notices shall also state how and where application forms may be obtained as well as the name, address, and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for further information.
§ 61.6
Application forms.
(a) Application forms to be filed by or for applicants for enrollment will be furnished by the Director, Superintendent, or other designated persons, upon written or oral request. Each person furnishing application forms shall keep a record of the names of individuals to whom forms are given, as well as the control numbers of the forms and the date furnished. Instructions for completing and filing applications shall be furnished with each form. The form shall indicate prominently the deadline for filing application forms.
(b) Among other information, each application form shall contain:
(1) Certification as to whether application form is for a natural child or an adopted child of the parent through whom eligibility is claimed.
(2) If the application form is filed by a sponsor, the name and address of sponsor and relationship to applicant.
(3) A control number for the purpose of keeping a record of forms furnished interested individuals.
(4) Certification that the information given on the application form is true to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person filing the application. Criminal penalties are provided by statute for knowingly filing false information in such applications (18 U.S.C. 1001).
(c) Application forms may be filed by sponsors on behalf of other persons.
(d) Every applicant or sponsor shall furnish the applicant's mailing address on the application form. Thereafter, the applicant or sponsor shall promptly notify the Director or Superintendent of any change in address, giving appropriate identification of the application, otherwise the mailing address as stated on the form shall be acceptable as the address of record for all purposes under the regulations in this part 61.
§ 61.7
Filing of application forms.
(a) Application forms filed by mail must be postmarked no later than midnight on the deadline specified. Where there is no postmark date showing on the envelope or the postmark date is illegible, application forms mailed from within the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, received more than 15 days and application forms mailed from outside of the United States received more than 30 days after the deadline specified in the office of the designated Director or Superintendent, will be denied for failure to file in time.
(b) Application forms filed by personal delivery must be received in the office of the designated Director or Superintendent no later than close of business on the deadline specified.
(c) If the deadline for filing application forms falls on a Saturday, Sunday,
legal holiday, or other nonbusiness day, the deadline will be the next working day thereafter.
(d) The provisions of this section shall not apply in the preparation of the rolls under paragraphs (r), (s), (w), (x), (y) and (z) of § 61.4.
§ 61.8
Verification forms.
If the Director or Superintendent is preparing a roll of Indians by adding names of eligible persons to and deleting names of ineligible persons from a previously approved roll,
and
individuals whose names appear on the previously approved roll are not required to file applications for enrollment, a verification form, to be completed and returned, shall be mailed to each previous enrollee using the last address of record. The verification form will be used to ascertain the previous enrollee's current name and address and that the enrollee is living, or if deceased, the enrollee's date of death. Name and/or address changes will only be made if the verification form is signed by an adult enrollee, if living, or the parent or guardian having legal custody of a minor enrollee, or an authorized sponsor. The verification form may also be used by any sponsor to notify the Director or Superintendent of the date of death of a previous enrollee.
§ 61.9
Burden of proof.
The burden of proof rests upon the applicant or tribal member to establish eligibility for enrollment. Documentary evidence such as birth certificates, death certificates, baptismal records, copies of probate findings, or affidavits, may be used to support claim of eligibility for enrollment. Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs may be used to establish eligibility.
§ 61.10
Review of applications by tribal authorities.
(a) If tribal review is applicable, the Director or Superintendent shall submit all applications to the Tribal Committee for review and recommendations or determinations; except that, in the cases of adopted persons where the Bureau of Indian Affairs has assured confidentiality to obtain the information necessary to determine the eligibility for enrollment of the individual or has the statutory obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the information, the confidential information may not be released to the Tribal Committee, but the Director or Superintendent shall certify as to the eligibility for enrollment of the individual to the Tribal Committee.
(b) The Tribal Committee shall review all applications and make its recommendations or determinations in writing stating the reasons for acceptance or rejection for enrollment.
(c) The Tribal Committee shall return the applications to the Director or Superintendent with its recommendations or determinations and any additional evidence used in determining eligibility for enrollment within 30 days of receipt of the applications by the Tribal Committee. The Director or Superintendent may grant the Tribal Committee additional time, upon request, for its review.
(d) Acceptance of an individual for enrollment by the Tribal Committee does not insure the individual's eligibility to share in the distribution of the judgment funds.
§ 61.11
Action by the Director or Superintendent.
(a) The Director or Superintendent shall consider each application, all documentation, and when applicable, tribal recommendations or determinations.
(b) The Director or Superintendent, when tribal recommendations or determinations are applicable, shall accept the recommendations or determinations of the Tribal Committee unless clearly erroneous.
(1) If the Director or Superintendent does not accept the tribal recommendation or determination, the Tribal Committee shall be notified in writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal delivery, of the action and the reasons therefor.
(2) The Tribal Committee may appeal the decision of the Director or Superintendent not to accept the tribal recommendation or determination. Such appeal must be in writing and must be filed pursuant to part 62 of this chapter.
(3) Unless otherwise specified by law or in a tribal governing document, the
determination of the Director or Superintendent shall only affect the individual's eligibility to share in the distribution of judgment funds.
(c) The Director or Superintendent, upon determining an individual's eligibility, shall notify the individual, parent or guardian having legal custody of a minor, or sponsor, as applicable, in writing of the decision. If an individual files applications on behalf of more than one person, one notice of eligibility or adverse action may be addressed to the person who filed the applications. However, the notice must list the name of each person involved. Where an individual is represented by a sponsor, notification of the sponsor of eligibility or adverse action shall be considered to be notification of the individual.
(1) If the Director or Superintendent determines that the individual is eligible, the name of the individual shall be placed on the roll.
(2) If the Director or Superintendent determines that the individual is not eligible, he/she shall notify the individual's parent or guardian having legal custody of a minor, or sponsor, as applicable, in writing by certified mail, to be received by the addressee only, return receipt requested, and shall explain fully the reasons for the adverse action and the right to appeal to the Secretary. If correspondence is sent out of the United States, registered mail will be used. If a certified or registered notice is returned as “Unclaimed” the Director or Superintendent shall remail the notice by regular mail together with an acknowledgment of receipt form to be completed by the addressee and returned to the Director or Superintendent. If the acknowledgment of receipt is not returned, computation of the appeal period shall begin on the date the notice was remailed. Certified or registered notices returned for any reason other than “Unclaimed” need not be remailed.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a notice of adverse action is considered to have been made and computation of the appeal period shall begin on the earliest of the following dates:
(1) Of delivery indicated on the return receipt;
(2) Of acknowledgment of receipt;
(3) Of personal delivery; or
(4) Of the return by the post office of an undelivered certified or registered letter.
(e) In all cases where an applicant is represented by an attorney, the attorney shall be recognized as fully controlling the application on behalf of the applicant and service on the attorney of any document relating to the application shall be considered to be service on the applicant. Where an applicant is represented by more than one attorney, service upon one of the attorneys shall be sufficient.
(f) To avoid hardship or gross injustice, the Director or Superintendent may waive technical deficiencies in applications or other submissions. Failure to file by the deadline does not constitute a technical deficiency.
§ 61.12
Appeals.
Appeals from or on behalf of tribal members or applicants who have been denied enrollment must be in writing and must be filed pursuant to part 62 of this chapter. When the appeal is on behalf of more than one person, the name of each person must be listed in the appeal. A copy of part 62 of this chapter shall be furnished with each notice of adverse action.
§ 61.13
Decision of the Assistant Secretary on appeals.
The decision of the Assistant Secretary on an appeal shall be final and conclusive and written notice of the decision shall be given the individual, parent or guardian having legal custody of a minor, or sponsor, as applicable. The name of any person whose appeal has been sustained will be added to the roll. Unless otherwise specified by law or in a tribal governing document, the determination of the Assistant Secretary shall only affect the individual's eligibility to share in the distribution of the judgment funds.
§ 61.14
Preparation, certification and approval of the roll.
(a) The staff officer shall prepare a minimum of five copies of the roll of those persons determined to be eligible
for enrollment. The roll shall contain for each person a roll number, name, address, sex, date of birth, date of death, when applicable, and when required by law, degree of Indian blood, and, in the remarks column, when applicable, the basic roll number, date of the basic roll, name and relationship of ancestor on the basic roll through whom eligibility was established.
(b) A certificate shall be attached to the roll by the staff officer or Superintendent certifying that to the best of his/her knowledge and belief the roll contains only the names of those persons who were determined to meet the qualifications for enrollment.
(c) The Director shall approve the roll.
§ 61.15
Special instructions.
To facilitate the work of the Director or Superintendent, the Assistant Secretary may issue special instructions not inconsistent with the regulations in this part 61.
Pt. 62

# PART 62—ENROLLMENT APPEALS
Sec.
62.1
Definitions.
62.2
Purpose.
62.3
Information collection.
62.4
Who may appeal.
62.5
An appeal.
62.6
Filing of an appeal.
62.7
Burden of proof.
62.8
Advising the tribal committee.
62.9
Action by the Superintendent.
62.10
Action by the Director.
62.11
Action by the Assistant Secretary.
62.12
Special instructions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9.

# Source:
52 FR 30160, Aug. 13, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 62.1
Definitions.
As used in these regulations:
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Director
means the Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs area office which has administrative jurisdiction over the local field office responsible for administering the affairs of a tribe, band, or group of Indians or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative acting under delegate authority.
Sponsor
means any authorized person, including an attorney, who files an appeal on behalf of another person.
Superintendent
means the official or other designated representative of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in charge of the field office which has immediate administrative responsibility with respect to the affairs of a tribe, band, or group of Indians or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Tribal committee
means the body of a federally recognized tribal entity vested with final authority to act on enrollment matters.
Tribal governing document
means the written organizational statement governing a tribe, band or group of Indians and/or any valid document, enrollment ordinance or resolution enacted thereunder.
Tribal member
means a person who meets the requirements for enrollment in a tribal entity and has been duly enrolled.
§ 62.2
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this part are to provide procedures for the filing and processing of appeals from adverse enrollment actions by Bureau officials.
(b) The regulations in this part are not applicable and do not provide procedures for the filing of appeals from adverse enrollment actions by tribal committees, unless:
(1) The adverse enrollment action is incident to the preparation of a tribal roll subject to Secretarial approval; or
(2) An appeal to the Secretary is provided for in the tribal governing document.
§ 62.3
Information collection.
In accordance with the Office of Management and Budget regulations contained in 5 CFR 1320.3, approval of the information collection requirements contained in this part is not required.
§ 62.4
Who may appeal.
(a) A person who is the subject of an adverse enrollment action may file or have filed on his/her behalf an appeal. An adverse enrollment action is:
(1) The rejection of an application for enrollment by a Bureau official incident to the preparation of a roll for Secretarial approval;
(2) The removal of a name from a tribal roll by a Bureau official incident to review of the roll for Secretarial approval;
(3) The rejection of an application for enrollment or the disenrollment of a tribal member by a tribal committee when the tribal governing document provides for an appeal of the action to the Secretary;
(4) The change in degree of Indian blood by a tribal committee which affects a tribal member when the tribal governing document provides for an appeal of the action to the Secretary;
(5) The change in degree of Indian blood by a Bureau official which affects an individual; and
(6) The certification of degree of Indian blood by a Bureau official which affects an individual.
(b) A tribal committee may file an appeal as provided for in § 61.11 of this chapter.
(c) A sponsor may file an appeal on behalf of another person who is subject to an adverse enrollment action.
§ 62.5
An appeal.
(a) An appeal must be in writing and must be filed with the Bureau official designated in the notification of an adverse enrollment action, or in the absence of a designated official, with the Bureau official who issued the notification of an adverse enrollment action; or when the notification of an adverse action is made by a tribal committee with the Superintendent.
(b) An appeal may be on behalf of more than one person. However, the name of each appellant must be listed in the appeal.
(c) An appeal filed by mail or filed by personal delivery must be received in the office of the designated Bureau official or of the Bureau official who issued the notification of an adverse enrollment action by close of business within 30 days of the notification of an adverse enrollment action, except when the appeal is mailed from outside the United States, in which case the appeal must be received by the close of business within 60 days of the notification of an adverse enrollment action.
(d) The appellant or sponsor shall furnish the appellant's mailing address in the appeal. Thereafter, the appellant or sponsor shall promptly notify the Bureau official with whom the appeal was filed of any change of address, otherwise the address furnished in the appeal shall be the address of record.
(e) An appellant or sponsor may request additional time to submit supporting evidence. A period considered reasonable for such submissions may be granted by the Bureau official with whom the appeal is filed. However, no additional time will be granted for the filing of the appeal.
(f) In all cases where an appellant is represented by a sponsor, the sponsor shall be recognized as fully controlling the appeal on behalf of the appellant. Service of any document relating to the appeal shall be on the sponsor and shall be considered to be service on the appellant. Where an appellant is represented by more than one sponsor, service upon one of the sponsors shall be sufficient.
§ 62.6
Filing of an appeal.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a notification of an adverse enrollment action will be mailed to the address of record or the last available address and will be considered to have been made and computation of the appeal period shall begin on:
(1) The date of delivery indicated on the return receipt when notice of the adverse enrollment action has been sent by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
(2) Ten (10) days after the date of the decision letter to the individual when notice of the adverse enrollment action
has not been sent by certified mail return receipt requested and the letter has not been returned by the post office; or
(3) The date the letter is returned by the post office as undelivered whether the notice of the adverse enrollment action has been sent by certified mail return receipt requested or by regular mail.
(b) When notification of an adverse enrollment action is under the regulations contained in part 61 of this chapter, computation of the appeal period shall be in accordance with § 61.11.
(c) In computing the 30 or 60 day appeal period, the count begins with the day following the notification of an adverse enrollment action and continues for 30 or 60 calendar days. If the 30th or 60th day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or other nonbusiness day, the appeal period will end on the first working day thereafter.
§ 62.7
Burden of proof.
(a) The burden of proof is on the appellant or sponsor. The appeal should include any supporting evidence not previously furnished and may include a copy or reference to any Bureau or tribal records having a direct bearing on the action.
(b) Criminal penalties are provided by statute for knowingly filing false or fraudulent information to an agency of the U.S. government (18 U.S.C. 1001).
§ 62.8
Advising the tribal committee.
Whenever applicable, the Superintendent or Director shall notify the tribal committee of the receipt of the appeal and shall give the tribal committee the opportunity to examine the appeal and to present such evidence as it may consider pertinent to the action being appealed. The tribal committee shall have not to exceed 30 days from receipt of notification of the appeal in which to present in writing such statements as if may deem pertinent, supported by any tribal records which have a bearing on the case. The Director or Superintendent may grant the tribal committee additional time, upon request, for its review.
§ 62.9
Action by the Superintendent.
When an appeal is from an adverse enrollment action taken by a Superintendent or tribal committee, the Superintendent shall acknowledge in writing receipt of the appeal and shall forward the appeal to the Director together with any relevant information or records; the recommendations of the tribal committee, when applicable; and his/her recommendations on the appeal.
§ 62.10
Action by the Director.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, when an appeal is from an adverse enrollment action taken by a Superintendent or tribal committee, the Director will consider the record as presented together with such additional information as may be considered pertinent. Any additional information relied upon shall be specifically identified in the decision. The Director shall make a decision on the appeal which shall be final for the Department and which shall so state in the decision. The appellant or sponsor will be notified in writing of the decision. Provided that, the Director may waive his/her authority to make a final decision and forward the appeal to the Assistant Secretary for final action.
(b) When an appeal is from an adverse enrollment action taken by a Director, the Director shall acknowledge in writing receipt of the appeal and shall forward the appeal to the Assistant Secretary for final action together with any relevant information or records; the recommendations of the tribal committee, when applicable; and his/her recommendations.
(c) The Director shall forward the appeal to the Assistant Secretary for final action together with any relevant information or records; the recommendations of the tribal committee, when applicable; and his/her recommendations when the adverse enrollment action which is being appealed is either:
(1) The change in degree of Indian blood by a tribal committee which affects a tribal member and the tribal governing document provides for an appeal of the action to the Secretary; or
(2) The change in degree of Indian blood by a Bureau official which affects an individual.
§ 62.11
Action by the Assistant Secretary.
The Assistant Secretary will consider the record as presented, together with such additional information as may be considered pertinent. Any additional information relied upon shall be specifically identified in the decision. The Assistant Secretary shall make a decision on the appeal which shall be final for the Department and which shall so state in the decision. The appellant or sponsor will be notified in writing of the decision.
§ 62.12
Special instructions.
To facilitate the work of the Director, the Assistant Secretary may issue special instructions not inconsistent with the regulations in this part 62.
Pt. 63

# PART 63—INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION AND FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION

# Subpart A—Purpose, Policy, and Definitions
Sec.
63.1
Purpose.
63.2
Policy.
63.3
Definitions.
63.4
Information collection.
63.5-63.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Minimum Standards of Character and Suitability for Employment
63.10
Purpose.
63.11
What is a determination of suitability for employment and efficiency of service?
63.12
What are minimum standards of character?
63.13
What does the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act require of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Indian tribes or tribal organizations receiving funds under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act?
63.14
What positions require a background investigation and determination of suitability for employment or retention?
63.15
What questions should an employer ask?
63.16
Who conducts the background investigation and prepares the determination of suitability for employment?
63.17
How does an employer determine suitability for employment and efficiency of service?
63.18
Are the requirements for Bureau of Indian Affairs adjudication different from the requirements for Indian tribes and tribal organizations?
63.19
When should an employer deny employment or dismiss an employee?
63.20
What should an employer do if an individual has been charged with an offense but the charge is pending or no disposition has been made by a court?
63.21
Are there other factors that may disqualify an applicant, volunteer or employee from placement in a position which involves regular contact with or control over Indian children?
63.22
Can an employer certify an individual with a prior conviction or substantiated misconduct as suitable for employment?
63.23
What rights does an applicant, volunteer or employee have during this process?
63.24
What protections must employers provide to applicants, volunteers and employees?
63.25-63.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Program
63.30
What is the purpose of the Indian child protection and family violence prevention program?
63.31
Can both the Bureau of Indian Affairs and tribes operate Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs?
63.32
Under what authority are Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds awarded?
63.33
What must an application for Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds include?
63.34
How are Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds distributed?
63.35
How may Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds be used?
63.36
What are the special requirements for Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs?
63.37-63.50
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 13, 200, 3201
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 13041.

# Source:
61 FR 32274, June 21, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Policy, and Definitions
§ 63.1
Purpose.
The purpose of these regulations is to prescribe minimum standards of character and suitability for employment for individuals whose duties and responsibilities allow them regular contact with or control over Indian children, and to establish the method for distribution of funds to support tribally operated programs to protect Indian children and reduce the incidents of family violence in Indian country as authorized by the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-630, 104 Stat. 4544, 25 U.S.C. 3201 3211.
§ 63.2
Policy.
In enacting the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, the Congress recognized there is no resource more vital to the continued existence and integrity of Indian tribes than their children and that the United States has a direct interest, as trustee, in protecting Indian children who are members of, or are eligible for membership in, an Indian tribe. The minimum standards of character and suitability of employment for individuals ensure that Indian children are protected, and the Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs will emphasize the unique values of Indian culture and community involvement in the prevention and treatment of child abuse, child neglect and family violence.
§ 63.3
Definitions.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior;
Child
means an individual who is not married, and has not attained 18 years of age.
Child abuse
includes but is not limited to any case in which a child is dead, or exhibits evidence of skin bruising, bleeding, malnutrition, failure to thrive, burns, fracture of any bone, subdural hematoma, or soft tissue swelling, and this condition is not justifiably explained or may not be the product of an accidental occurrence; and any case in which a child is subjected to sexual assault, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact, or prostitution.
Child neglect
includes but is not limited to, negligent treatment or maltreatment of a child by a person, including a person responsible for the child's welfare, under circumstances which indicate that the child's health or welfare is harmed or threatened.
Crimes against persons
are defined by local law. Adjudicating officers must contact local law enforcement agencies to determine if the crime for which an applicant or employee was found guilty (or entered a plea of nolo contendere or guilty) is defined as a crime against persons.
Family violence
means any act, or threatened act, of violence, including any forceful detention of an individual, which results, or threatens to result, in physical or mental injury, and is committed by an individual against another individual to whom such person is, or was, related by blood or marriage or otherwise legally related, or with whom such person is, or was, residing, or with whom such person has, or had, intimate or continuous social contact and household access.
Indian
means any individual who is a member of an Indian tribe.
Indian child
means any unmarried person who is under age eighteen and is either a member of an Indian tribe or eligible for membership in an Indian tribe and is the biological child of a member of an Indian tribe.
Indian country
means:
(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and, including rights-of-way running through the reservation;
(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof; and,
(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same. Unless otherwise indicated, the term “Indian country” is used instead of “Indian reservation” for consistency.
Indian reservation
means any Indian reservation, public domain Indian allotment, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, or lands held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, or village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Inter-tribal consortium
means a partnership between an Indian tribe or tribal organization of an Indian tribe, and one or more Indian tribes or tribal organizations of one or more Indian tribes.
Local child protective services agency
is an agency of the Federal Government, state, or Indian tribe that has the primary responsibility for child protection on any Indian reservation, or within any community in Indian country.
Local law enforcement agency
is that Federal, tribal, or state law enforcement agency that has primary responsibility for the investigation of an instance of alleged child abuse within the involved Indian jurisdiction.
Must
is used in place of shall and indicates a mandatory or imperative act or requirement.
Offenses committed against children
means any felonious or misdemeanor crime under Federal, State, or Tribal law committed against a victim that has not attained the age of eighteen years. In determining whether a crime falls within this category, the applicable Federal, State, or Tribal law under which the individual was convicted or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere is controlling.
Person responsible for a child's welfare
is any person who has legal or other recognized duty for the care and safety of a child, and may include any employee or volunteer of a children's residential facility, and any person providing out-of-home care, education, or services to children.
Related assistance
means the counseling and self-help services for abusers, victims, and dependents in family violence situations; referrals for appropriate health-care services (including alcohol and drug abuse treatment); and may include food, clothing, child care, transportation, and emergency services for victims of family violence and their dependents.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Service
means the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services.
Shelter
means the temporary refuge and related assistance in compliance with applicable Federal and tribal laws and regulations governing the provision, on a regular basis, of shelter, safe homes, meals, and related assistance to victims of family violence or their dependents.
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities:
Provided,
That in any case where a contract is let, a grant is awarded, or funding agreement is made to an organization to perform services benefitting more than one Indian tribe, the approval of each such Indian tribe must be a prerequisite to the letting or making of such contract, grant, or funding agreement.
[61 FR 32274, June 21, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 37564, June 23, 2020]
§ 63.4
Information collection.
The information collection requirement contained in § 63.15, § 63.33 and § 63.34 will be approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3507(d), and assigned clearance number __________.
§§ 63.5-63.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Minimum Standards of Character and Suitability for Employment
§ 63.10
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish:
(a) Procedures for determining suitability for employment and efficiency of service as mandated by the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act; and
(b)
Minimum standards of character
to ensure that individuals having regular contact with or control over Indian children have not been convicted of certain types of crimes or acted in a manner that placed others at risk or raised questions about their trustworthiness.
§ 63.11
What is a determination of suitability for employment and efficiency of service?
(a)
Determinations of suitability measure the fitness or eligibility
of an applicant, volunteer, or employee for a particular position. Suitability for employment does not evaluate an applicant's education, skills, knowledge, experience, etc. Rather, it requires that the employer investigate the background of each applicant, volunteer, and employee to:
(1) Determine the degree of risk the applicant, volunteer, or employee brings to the position; and
(2) Certify that the applicant's, volunteer's, or employee's past conduct would not interfere with his/her performance of duties, nor would it create an immediate or long-term risk for any Indian child.
(b)
Efficiency of service
is the employer's verification that the applicant or employee is able to perform the duties and responsibilities of the position, and his/her presence on the job will not inhibit other employees or the agency from performing their functions.
§ 63.12
What are minimum standards of character?
Minimum standards of character are established by an employer and refer to identifiable character traits and past conduct. An employer may use character traits and past conduct to determine whether an applicant, volunteer, or employee can effectively perform the duties of a particular position without risk of harm to others. Minimum standards of character ensure that no applicant, volunteer, or employee will be placed in a position with regular contact with or control over Indian children if he/she has been found guilty of or entered a plea of nolo contendere or guilty to any felonious offense, or any of two or more misdemeanor offenses under Federal, State, or Tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact or prostitution; crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children.
[85 FR 37564, June 23, 2020]
§ 63.13
What does the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act require of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Indian tribes or tribal organizations receiving funds under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act?
(a) The
Bureau of Indian Affairs
must compile a list of all authorized positions which involve regular contact with or control over Indian children; investigate the character of each individual who is employed, or is being considered for employment; and, prescribe minimum standards of character which each individual must meet to be appointed to such positions.
(b) All
Indian tribes or tribal organizations
receiving funds under the authority of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 must conduct a background investigation for individuals whose duties and responsibilities would allow them regular contact with or control over Indian children, and employ only individuals who meet standards of character that are no less stringent than those prescribed for the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
§ 63.14
What positions require a background investigation and determination of suitability for employment or retention?
All positions that allow an applicant, employee, or volunteer regular contact with or control over Indian children are subject to a background investigation and determination of suitability for employment.
§ 63.15
What questions should an employer ask?
Employment applications must:
(a) Ask whether the applicant, volunteer, or employee has been arrested or convicted of a crime involving a child, violence, sexual assault, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact or prostitution, or crimes against persons;
(b) Ask the disposition of the arrest or charge;
(c) Require that an applicant, volunteer or employee sign, under penalty of perjury, a statement verifying the truth of all information provided in the employment application; and
(d) Inform the applicant, volunteer or employee that a criminal history record check is a condition of employment and require the applicant, volunteer or employee to consent, in writing, to a record check.
§ 63.16
Who conducts the background investigation and prepares the determination of suitability for employment?
(a) The
Bureau of Indian Affairs
must use the United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to conduct background investigations for Federal employees. The BIA must designate qualified security personnel to adjudicate the results of background investigations.
(b)
Indian tribes and tribal organizations
may conduct their own background investigations, contract with private firms, or request the OPM to conduct an investigation. The investigation should cover the past five years of the individual's employment, education, etc.
§ 63.17
How does an employer determine suitability for employment and efficiency of service?
(a)
Adjudication
is the process employers use to determine suitability for employment and efficiency of service. The adjudication process protects the interests of the employer and the rights of applicants and employees. Adjudication requires uniform evaluation to ensure fair and consistent judgment.
(b) Each case is judged on its own merits. All available information, both favorable and unfavorable, must be considered and assessed in terms of accuracy, completeness, relevance, seriousness, overall significance, and how similar cases have been handled in the past.
(c) An
adjudicating official
conducts the adjudication. Each Federal agency, Indian tribe, or tribal organization must appoint an adjudicating official, who must first have been the subject of a favorable background investigation.
(1) Indian tribes and tribal organizations must ensure that persons charged with the responsibility for adjudicating employee background investigations are well-qualified and trained.
(2) Indian tribes and tribal organizations should also ensure that individuals who are not trained to adjudicate these types of investigations are supervised by someone who is experienced and receive the training necessary to perform the task.
(d) Each adjudicating official must be thoroughly familiar with all laws, regulations, and criteria involved in making a determination for suitability.
(e) The adjudicating official must review the background investigation to determine the character, reputation, and trustworthiness of the individual. At a minimum, the adjudicating official must:
(1) Review each security investigation form and employment application and compare the information provided;
(2) Review the results of written record searches requested from local law enforcement agencies, former employers, former supervisors, employment references, and schools; and
(3) Review the results of the fingerprint charts maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation or other law
enforcement information maintained by other agencies.
(f) Relevancy is a key objective in evaluating investigative data. The adjudicating official must consider prior conduct in light of:
(1) The nature and seriousness of the conduct in question;
(2) The recency and circumstances surrounding the conduct in question;
(3) The age of the individual at the time of the incident;
(4) Societal conditions that may have contributed to the nature of the conduct;
(5) The probability that the individual will continue the type of behavior in question; and,
(6) The individual's commitment to rehabilitation and a change in the behavior in question.
§ 63.18
Are the requirements for Bureau of Indian Affairs adjudication different from the requirements for Indian tribes and tribal organizations?
Yes.
(a) In addition to the minimum requirements for background investigations found in § 63.12,
Bureau of Indian Affairs'
adjudicating officials must review the OPM National Agency Check and Inquiries which includes a search of the OPM Security/Suitability Investigations Index (SII) and the Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII), and any additional standards which may be established by the BIA.
(b)
All
Bureau of Indian Affairs employees who have regular contact with or control over Indian children must be reinvestigated every five years during their employment in that or any other position which allows regular contact with or control over Indian children.
(c)
Indian tribes and tribal organizations
may adopt these additional requirements but are not mandated to do so by law.
§ 63.19
When should an employer deny employment or dismiss an employee?
(a) An employer must deny employment or dismiss an employee when an individual has been found guilty of or entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felonious offense, or any of two or more misdemeanor offenses under Federal, State, or Tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact or prostitution; crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) An employer may deny employment or dismiss an employee when an individual has been convicted of an offense involving a child victim, a sex crime, or a drug felony.
(c) An employer may consider if a pardon, expungement, set aside, or other court order reaches the plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere, or the finding of guilt.
[61 FR 32274, June 21, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 66771, Nov. 30, 1999; 85 FR 37564, June 23, 2020]
§ 63.20
What should an employer do if an individual has been charged with an offense but the charge is pending or no disposition has been made by a court?
(a) The employer may deny the applicant employment until the charge has been resolved.
(b) The employer may deny the employee any on-the-job contact with children until the charge is resolved.
(c) The employer may detail or reassign the employee to other duties that do not involve contact with children.
(d) The employer may place the employee on administrative leave until the court has disposed of the charge.
§ 63.21
Are there other factors that may disqualify an applicant, volunteer or employee from placement in a position which involves regular contact with or control over Indian children?
Yes.
(a) An applicant, volunteer, or employee may be disqualified from consideration or continuing employment if it is found that:
(1) The individual's misconduct or negligence interfered with or affected a current or prior employer's performance of duties and responsibilities.
(2) The individual's criminal or dishonest conduct affected the individual's performance or the performance of others.
(3) The individual made an intentional false statement, deception or fraud on an examination or in obtaining employment.
(4) The individual has refused to furnish testimony or cooperate with an investigation.
(5) The individual's alcohol or substance abuse is of a nature and duration that suggests the individual could not perform the duties of the position or would directly threaten the property or safety of others.
(6) The individual has illegally used narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances without evidence of substantial rehabilitation.
(7) The individual knowingly and willfully engaged in an act or activities designed to disrupt government programs.
(b) An individual must be disqualified for Federal employment if any statutory or regulatory provision would prevent his/her lawful employment.
§ 63.22
Can an employer certify an individual with a prior conviction or substantiated misconduct as suitable for employment?
(a) The
Bureau of Indian Affairs
must use Federal adjudicative standards which allow the BIA to certify that an individual is suitable for employment in a position that does not involve regular contact with or control over Indian children. The adjudicating officer must determine that the individual's prior conduct will not interfere with the performance of duties and will not create a potential for risk to the safety and well-being of Indian children.
(b)
Indian tribes and tribal organizations
must identify those positions which permit contact with or control over Indian children and establish standards to determine suitability for employment. Those standards should then be used to determine whether an individual is suitable for employment in a position that permits contact with or control over Indian children. If not, the individual may only be placed in a position that does not permit contact with or control over Indian children.
§ 63.23
What rights does an applicant, volunteer or employee have during this process?
(a) The applicant, volunteer, or employee must be provided an opportunity to explain, deny, or refute unfavorable and incorrect information gathered in an investigation, before the adjudication is final. The applicant, volunteer, or employee should receive a written summary of all derogatory information and be informed of the process for explaining, denying, or refuting unfavorable information.
(b) Employers and adjudicating officials must not release the actual background investigative report to an applicant, volunteer, or employee. However, they may issue a written summary of the derogatory information.
(c) The applicant, volunteer, or employee who is the subject of a background investigation may obtain a copy of the reports from the originating (Federal, state, or other tribal) agency and challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information maintained by that agency.
(d) The results of an investigation cannot be used for any purpose other than to determine suitability for employment in a position that involves regular contact with or control over Indian children.
(e) Investigative reports contain information of a highly personal nature and should be maintained confidentially and secured in locked files. Investigative reports should be seen only by those officials who in performing their official duties need to know the information contained in the report.
§ 63.24
What protections must employers provide to applicants, volunteers and employees?
(a) Indian tribes and tribal organizations must comply with the privacy requirements of any Federal, state, or other tribal agency providing background investigations. Indian tribes and tribal organizations must establish and comply with personnel policies that safeguard information derived from background investigations.
(b) The Bureau of Indian Affairs must comply with all policies, procedures, criteria, and guidance contained in the
Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual or other appropriate guidelines.
(c) Federal agencies exercising authority under this part by delegation from OPM must comply with OPM policies, procedures, criteria, and guidance.
§§ 63.25-63.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Program
§ 63.30
What is the purpose of the Indian child protection and family violence prevention program?
The purpose of this program is to develop tribally-operated programs to protect Indian children and reduce the incidence of family violence on Indian reservations.
§ 63.31
Can both the Bureau of Indian Affairs and tribes operate Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs?
Yes. However, tribes are encouraged to develop and operate programs to protect Indian children and reduce the incidence of family violence in Indian country.
§ 63.32
Under what authority are Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds awarded?
The Secretary is authorized to enter into contracts with Indian tribes, tribal organizations, or tribal consortia pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
, for the development and establishment of Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs. This includes compacting with tribes under the Self-Governance program procedures.
§ 63.33
What must an application for Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds include?
In addition to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
, contracting requirements, each application must provide the following information:
(a) The name and address of the agency or official to be responsible for the investigation of reported cases of child abuse and child neglect, the treatment and prevention of incidents of family violence, and the provision of immediate shelter and related assistance for victims of family violence and their dependents;
(b) Projected service population of the program;
(c) Projected service area of the program; and
(d) Projected number of cases per month.
§ 63.34
How are Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds distributed?
(a) Funds will be distributed, subject to the availability of appropriations, and:
(1) In any fiscal year that the appropriation exceeds 50 percent of the level of funding authorized for this purpose by the Act, 49 percent must be distributed equally to all tribes and tribal organizations and 49 percent must be distributed on a per capita basis according to the population of children residing in the service area. Two percent of the annual appropriation will be set aside for distribution to tribes demonstrating special circumstances.
(2) In any fiscal year that the appropriation does not exceed 50 percent of the level of funding authorized for this purpose by the Act, funding must be distributed in equal amounts to all tribes. Two percent of the annual appropriation will be set aside for distribution to tribes demonstrating special circumstances.
(3) Special circumstances include but are not limited to a high incidence of child sexual abuse, a high incidence of violent crimes, a high incidence of violent crimes against women, or the existence of a significant victim population within the community.
(i) This 2 percent will be subject to discretionary distribution by the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, or his or her designee. Tribes may request these funds through their respective area offices. All requests must demonstrate a high incidence of child sexual abuse, a high incidence of violent crimes, a high incidence of violent
crimes against women, or the existence of a significant victim population within the community.
(ii) Special circumstances funds will remain available through the third quarter of each fiscal year. In the fourth quarter, unallocated special circumstances funds will be redistributed as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, except that there will be no additional set aside for special circumstances.
(b) Any tribe not wishing to receive Indian child protection and family violence prevention funds must inform its respective area office in writing within 90 days after receiving notice of the allocation from the area office. Each area office may reallocate unused Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds as provided in this section.
(c) Funds may be used as matching shares for other federally funded programs which contribute to and promote prevention of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence on Indian reservations, but may not be used to supplant funds available for the same general purposes.
(d) Any income resulting from the operation of Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs may be retained and used to promote prevention of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence on Indian reservations.
§ 63.35
How may Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds be used?
Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds may be used to:
(a) Establish child protective services programs.
(b) Establish family violence prevention and treatment programs.
(c) Develop and implement multidisciplinary child abuse investigation and prosecution programs.
(d) Provide immediate shelter and related assistance to victims of family violence and their dependents, including construction or renovation of facilities to establish family violence shelters.
(e) Purchase equipment to assist in the investigation of cases of child abuse and child neglect.
(f) Develop protocols and intergovernmental or interagency agreements among tribal, Federal, state law enforcement, courts of competent jurisdiction, and related agencies to ensure investigations of child abuse cases to minimize the trauma to the child victim, to define and specify each party's responsibilities, and to provide for the coordination of services to victims and their families.
(g) Develop child protection codes and regulations that provide for the care and protection of children and families on Indian reservations.
(h) Establish community education programs for tribal members and school children on issues of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.
(i) Establish training programs for child protective services, law enforcement, judicial, medical, education, and related services personnel in the investigation, prevention, protection, and treatment of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence.
(j) Establish other innovative and culturally relevant programs and projects that show promise of successfully preventing and treating family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.
§ 63.36
What are the special requirements for Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs?
(a) Each tribe must develop appropriate standards of service, including caseload standards and staffing requirements. The following caseload standards and staffing requirements are comparable to those recommended by the Child Welfare League of America, and are included to assist tribes in developing standards for Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs:
(1) Caseworkers providing services to abused and neglected children and their families have a caseload of 20 active ongoing cases and five active investigations per caseworker.
(2) Caseworkers providing services to strengthen and preserve families with children have a caseload of 20 families.
If intensive family-centered crisis services are provided, a caseload of 10 families per caseworker is recommended.
(3) It is recommended that there be one supervisor for every six caseworkers.
(b) The negotiation and award of contracts, grants, or funding agreements under these regulations must include the following requirements:
(1) Performance of background investigations to ensure that only those individuals who meet the standards of character contained in § 63.12 are employed in positions which involve regular contact with or control over Indian children.
(2) Submission of an annual report to the contracting officer's representative which details program activities, number of children and families served, and the number of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence reports received.
(3) Assurance that the identity of any person making a report of child abuse or child neglect will not be disclosed without the consent of the individual and that all reports and records collected under these regulations are confidential and to be disclosed only as provided by Federal or tribal law.
(4) Assurance that persons who, in good faith, report child abuse or child neglect will not suffer retaliation from their employers.
§§ 63.37-63.50
[Reserved]
Pt. 67

# PART 67—PREPARATION OF A ROLL OF INDEPENDENT SEMINOLE INDIANS OF FLORIDA
Sec.
67.1
Definitions.
67.2
Purpose.
67.3
Information collection.
67.4
Qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms.
67.5
Notices.
67.6
Application forms.
67.7
Filing of application forms.
67.8
Burden of proof.
67.9
Action by Superintendent.
67.10
Appeals.
67.11
Decision of the Area Director on appeals.
67.12
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
67.13
Preparation, certification and approval of the roll.
67.14
Preparation of a per capita payment roll.
67.15
Special instructions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9; and Pub.L. 101-277, 104 Stat. 143.

# Source:
59 FR 3291, Jan. 20, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 67.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Act of Congress approved April 30, 1990, Public Law 101-277, 104 Stat. 143, which authorizes the use and distribution of funds awarded the Seminole Indians in Dockets 73, 151, and 73-A of the Indian Claims Commission.
Adopted person
means a person whose natural parents' parental rights have been terminated by court order and persons other than the natural parents have exercised or do exercise parental rights with regard to the adopted person.
Applicant
means a person who is making application for inclusion on the roll prepared by the Secretary pursuant to the Act of April 30, 1990, by either personally filing an application or by having a sponsor complete and file an application on his or her behalf.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs or authorized representative.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or authorized representative.
Director
means the Area Director, Eastern Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs or authorized representative.
Lineal descendant(s)
means those persons who are the issue of the ancestor through whom enrollment rights are claimed; namely, the children, grandchildren, etc. It does not include collateral relatives such as brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, cousins, etc., or adopted children, adopted grandchildren, etc.
Living
means born on or before and alive on the date specified.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or authorized representative.
Sponsor
means any person who files an application for enrollment or an appeal on behalf of another person.
Superintendent
means the Superintendent, Seminole Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs or authorized representative.
§ 67.2
Purpose.
The regulations in this part govern the compilation of a roll of persons who meet the requirements specified in section 7 of the Act who will be eligible to share in the distribution of a portion of the judgment funds awarded the Seminole Indians in Dockets 73, 151, and 73-A of the Indian Claims Commission.
§ 67.3
Information collection.
The information collection requirement contained in this part does not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
§ 67.4
Qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms.
(a) The roll shall contain the names of persons of Seminole Indian descent who:
(1) Were born on or before, and living on April 30, 1990;
(2) Are listed on or who are lineal descendants of persons listed on the annotated Seminole Agency Census of 1957 as Independent Seminoles; and
(3) Are not members of an Indian tribe recognized by the Secretary on the most recent list of such Indian tribes published in the
Federal Register.
(b) To qualify for enrollment, all persons must file application forms with the Superintendent, Seminole Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 6075 Stirling Road, Hollywood, Florida 33024 by June 19, 1994. An application filed after June 19, 1994 will be rejected for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment.
§ 67.5
Notices.
(a) The Director shall give notice to all Area Directors of the BIA and all Superintendents within the jurisdiction of the Director of the preparation of the roll for public display in BIA field offices. Notices shall be placed for public display in community buildings, tribal buildings and Indian centers.
(b) The Superintendent shall, on the basis of available residence data, publish, and republish when advisable, notices of the preparation of the roll in appropriate localities utilizing media suitable to the circumstances.
(c) Notices shall advise of the preparation of the roll and the relevant procedures to be followed, including the qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms to be eligible for enrollment. The notices shall also state how and where application forms may be obtained, as well as the name, address, and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for further information.
§ 67.6
Application forms.
(a) Application forms to be filed by or for applicants for enrollment shall be furnished by the Area Director, Superintendent, or other designated persons upon written or oral request. Each person furnishing application forms shall keep a record of the names of individuals to whom forms are given, as well as the control numbers of the forms and the date furnished. Instructions for completing and filing application forms shall be furnished with each form. The form shall indicate prominently the deadline date for filing application forms.
(b) Among other information, each application form shall contain:
(1) Certification as to whether the application form is for a natural child or an adopted child of the parent through whom eligibility is claimed.
(2) If the application form is filed by a sponsor, the name and address of the sponsor and the sponsor's relationship to the applicant.
(3) A control number for the purpose of keeping a record of forms furnished to interested individuals.
(4) Certification that the information given on the application form is true to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person filing the application. Criminal penalties are provided by statute for knowingly filing false information in such applications (18 U.S.C. 1001).
(5) An election by the applicant as to whether the applicant, if determined to
meet the qualifications for enrollment, wishes to share in the per capita payment.
(c) Sponsors may file application forms on behalf of other persons, but may not file elections to share in the per capita payment.
(1) The election to share in the per capita payment shall be made as follows:
(i) If the applicant is a competent adult, the election shall be made by the applicant.
(ii) If the applicant is not a competent adult, the election shall be made by the applicant's legal guardian.
(iii) If the applicant is a minor, the election shall be made by the applicant's parent or legal guardian.
(2) When an application is filed by a sponsor, the Superintendent shall:
(i) Furnish the sponsor a copy of the application for forwarding to the applicant or his/her guardian for completion of the election to share in the per capita payment; and
(ii) Make a reasonable effort to furnish a copy of the application directly to the applicant or his/her guardian for completion of the election to share in the per capita payment.
(d) Every applicant or sponsor shall furnish the applicant's mailing address on the application form. Thereafter, the applicant or sponsor shall promptly notify the Superintendent of any change in address, giving appropriate identification of the applicant. Otherwise, the mailing address as stated on the application form shall be accepted as the address of record for all purposes under the regulations in this part.
§ 67.7
Filing of application forms.
(a) Application forms filed by mail must be postmarked no later than midnight on the deadline date specified in § 67.4(b). Where there is no postmark date showing on the envelope or the postmark date is illegible, application forms mailed from within the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, received more than 15 days after the specified deadline, and application forms mailed from outside of the United States received more than 30 days after the specified deadline in the office of the Superintendent, will be rejected for failure to file in time.
(b) Application forms filed by personal delivery must be received in the office of the Superintendent no later than close of business on the deadline date specified in § 67.4(b).
(c) If the deadline date for filing application forms falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or other nonbusiness day, the deadline will be the next working day thereafter.
§ 67.8
Burden of proof.
The burden of proof rests upon the applicant to establish eligibility for enrollment. Documentary evidence such as birth certificates, death certificates, baptismal records, copies of probate findings, or affidavits may be used to support claims of eligibility for enrollment. Records of the BIA may be used to establish eligibility.
§ 67.9
Action by Superintendent.
(a) The Superintendent shall notify each individual applicant or sponsor, as applicable, upon receipt of an application. The Superintendent shall consider each application and all documentation. Upon determining an individual's eligibility, the Superintendent shall notify the individual; the parent or guardian having legal custody of a minor or incompetent adult; or the sponsor, as applicable.
(1) Written notification of the Superintendent's decision shall be sent to the applicant by certified mail, for receipt by the addressee only, return receipt requested.
(2) If a decision by the Superintendent is sent out of the United States, registered mail will be used. If a certified or registered notice is returned as “Unclaimed,” the Superintendent shall remail the notice by regular mail together with an acknowledgment of receipt form to be completed by the addressee and returned to the Superintendent. If the acknowledgment of receipt is not returned, computation of the period specified for changes in election and for appeals shall begin on the date the notice was remailed. A certified or registered notice returned for any reason other than “Unclaimed” need not be remailed.
(3) If an individual files an application on behalf of more than one person,
one notice of eligibility or adverse action may be addressed to the person who filed the applications. However, the notice must list the name of each person to whom the notice is applicable. Where an individual is represented by a sponsor, notification to the sponsor of eligibility or adverse action shall be considered notification to the individual.
(b) On the basis of an applicant's election with regard to whether he or she wishes to share in the per capita payment, the Superintendent's decision shall also state whether the applicant's name will be included on the per capita payment roll. If no election has been made by the applicant, parent, or legal guardian on the application form, the individual applicant's name will not be included on the per capita payment roll.
(1) The eligible individual will have 30 days from notification of his or her eligibility in which to request a change in the election of whether to share in the per capita payment. Computation of the 30-day period will be in accordance with § 67.9(a)(2) and § 67.9(d). Upon written request received within the 30-day period, to avoid hardship or gross injustice, the Superintendent may grant an applicant additional time, not to exceed 30 days, in which to submit a request for a change in election.
(2) A change in the election of whether to share in the per capita payment can only be made by competent adult applicants; by the legal guardian of an incompetent adult; or, in the case of a minor, by the minor's parent or legal guardian.
(c) If the Superintendent determines that an applicant is not eligible for enrollment as an Independent Seminole Indian of Florida, the Superintendent shall notify the applicant of the decision and shall fully explain the reasons for the adverse action and explain the rejected applicant's right to appeal to the Area Director. The decision of the Area Director shall be final and conclusive.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a notice of adverse action concerning an individual's enrollment eligibility or the inclusion or exclusion of an individual's name on the per capita payment roll is considered to have been made, and computation of the period for appeal shall begin on the earliest of the following dates:
(1) Delivery date indicated on the return receipt;
(2) Date of acknowledgment of receipt;
(3) Date of personal delivery; or
(4) Date of return by the post office of an undelivered certified or registered letter.
(e) To avoid hardship or gross injustice, the Area Director or the Superintendent may waive technical deficiencies in application forms or other submittals. Failure to file by the deadline date does not constitute a technical deficiency.
§ 67.10
Appeals.
(a) Appeals from or on behalf of applicants who have been rejected for enrollment must be in writing and must be filed pursuant to part 62 of this chapter. When the appeal is on behalf of more than one person, the name of each person must be listed in the appeal.
(b) A copy of part 62 of this chapter shall be furnished with each notice of adverse action. All sections of part 62 shall be applicable to appeals filed under this part except §§ 62.10, 62.11 and 62.12.
§ 67.11
Decision of the Area Director on appeals.
(a) The Area Director will consider the record as presented, together with such additional information as may be considered pertinent. Any additional information relied upon shall be specifically identified in the decision.
(b) The decision of the Area Director on an appeal shall be final and conclusive, and written notice, which shall state that the decision is final and conclusive, shall be given to the individual applicant, parent, legal guardian, or sponsor, as applicable.
(c) If an individual files an appeal on behalf of more than one applicant, one notice of the Area Director's decision may be addressed to the person who filed the appeal. The Area Director's decision must list the name of each person to whom the decision is applicable. Where an individual applicant is represented by a sponsor, notification
to the sponsor of the Area Director's decision is sufficient.
(d) Written notice of the Area Director's decision on the appeal shall be sent to the applicant by certified mail, to be received by the addressee only, return receipt requested.
(1) On the basis of the individual's election with regard to whether he or she wishes to share in the per capita payment, the Area Director's decision shall also state whether the individual's name will be included on the per capita payment roll. If no election is made by the individual applicant, parent, or legal guardian, the individual's name will not be included on the per capita payment roll.
(2) The eligible individual will have 30 days from notification of his or her eligibility in which to request a change in the election of whether to share in the per capita payment. Computation of the 30-day period will be in accordance with § 67.9(a)(2) and § 67.9(d). Upon written request received within the 30-day period, to avoid hardship or gross injustice, the Area Director may grant additional time, not to exceed 30 days, in which to submit a request for a change in election.
(3) The change in the election of whether to share in the per capita payment can only be made by adult applicants, or by the legal guardian of an incompetent adult, or in the case of minors, by the parents or legal guardian of such minors.
§ 67.12
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
The decision of the Area Director on appeal, which shall be final for the Department, is subject to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 704.
§ 67.13
Preparation, certification and approval of the roll.
(a) The Superintendent shall prepare a minimum of three (3) copies of the roll of those persons determined to be qualified for enrollment as an Independent Seminole Indian of Florida. The roll shall contain for each person a roll number or identification number, name, address, sex, date of birth, date of death (when applicable), and the name and relationship of the ancestor on the annotated Seminole Agency Census of 1957 through whom eligibility for enrollment was established.
(b) A certificate shall be attached to the roll by the Superintendent certifying that to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, the roll contains only the names of those persons who were determined to meet the qualifications for enrollment.
(c) The Area Director shall approve the roll.
§ 67.14
Preparation of a per capita payment roll.
(a) The Superintendent shall, based on the roll approved under § 67.12(c), prepare a per capita payment roll. The payment roll shall be comprised of those persons whose names appear on the approved roll and who have elected to share in the per capita payment.
(b) The per capita payment roll shall contain for each person a roll number or identification number, name, and address.
(c) The Area Director shall authorize the distribution of the judgment funds to those persons named on the per capita payment roll.
§ 67.15
Special instructions.
To facilitate the work of the Superintendent and Area Director, the Assistant Secretary may issue special instructions not inconsistent with the regulations in this part.
Pt. 75

# PART 75—REVISION OF THE MEMBERSHIP ROLL OF THE EASTERN BAND OF CHEROKEE INDIANS, NORTH CAROLINA
Sec.
75.1
Definitions.
75.2
Purpose.
75.3
Announcement of revision of roll.
75.4
Basic membership roll.
75.5
Removal of deceased persons from the roll.
75.6
Additions to the roll.
75.7
Applications for enrollment.
75.8
Applications for minors and incompetents.
75.9
Application form.
75.10
Where application forms may be obtained.
75.11
Proof of relationship.
75.12
Enrollment Committee.
75.13
Tenure of Enrollment Committee.
75.14
Appeals.
75.15
Current membership roll.
75.16
Eligibility for enrollment of persons born after August 21, 1957.
75.17
Relinquishment of membership.
75.18
Adoption.
75.19
Distribution of judgment funds.

# Authority:
Sec. 2, 71 Stat. 374.

# Source:
24 FR 201, Jan. 8, 1959, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 75.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Band
means the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians in North Carolina.
(b)
Reservation
means the lands of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians in the counties of Jackson, Swain, Graham, Cherokee and Haywood in North Carolina.
(c)
Tribal Council
means the Tribal Council of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians in North Carolina.
(d)
Announcement
means the announcement of the revision of the membership roll issued as required in § 75.3.
(e)
Tribal Enrollment Office
means the Tribal Enrollment Clerk working in concert with the Enrollment Committee.
(f)
Tribal Enrollment Clerk
means the individual working in the Tribal Enrollment Office.
(g)
Enrollment Committee
means the three individuals appointed by the Tribal Council in accordance with § 75.12.
[24 FR 201, Jan. 8, 1959, as amended at 25 FR 2516, Mar. 25, 1960; 38 FR 9998, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.2
Purpose.
The regulations in this part are to govern the revision, as authorized by the Act approved August 21, 1957 (71 Stat. 374), of the membership roll of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, North Carolina, prepared and approved in accordance with the Act of June 4, 1924 (43 Stat. 376), and the Act of March 4, 1931 (46 Stat. 1518).
§ 75.3
Announcement of revision of roll.
When the Tribal Council has authorized the expenditure of tribal funds to supply sufficient staff to perform the work necessary to revise the membership roll of the Band and such staff has been employed and when the application forms and other necessary documents have been devised and printed, the Principal Chief, or in his absence the Vice Chief or the Chairman of the Tribal Council shall announce that a revision of the membership roll of the Band shall commence on a specified date. The date specified shall be not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days from the date of issuance of the announcement. A press release should be prepared announcing the date the revision of the roll shall begin, together with other pertinent information such as the membership requirements and where application forms may be obtained. The press release should be distributed to all newspapers and radio stations within the region of the Reservation with a request that it be given wide publicity. Copies of the press release should also be posted in the Agency Office and at various other public places throughout the Reservation as well as in Post Offices of the towns adjacent to the Reservation.
§ 75.4
Basic membership roll.
All persons whose names appear on the roll of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians of North Carolina, prepared and approved pursuant to the act of June 4, 1924 (43 Stat. 376), and the act of March 4, 1931 (46 Stat. 1518), shall be members of the Band.
§ 75.5
Removal of deceased persons from the roll.
The name of any person who was not alive as of midnight August 21, 1957, shall be stricken from the basic membership roll by the Tribal Enrollment Office upon receipt of a death certificate or other evidence of death acceptable to the Tribal Enrollment Office.
[38 FR 9998, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.6
Additions to the roll.
There shall be added to the roll of the Band the names of persons living on August 21, 1957, who meet the following qualifications:
(a) Persons born during the period, beginning on or after June 4, 1924, and ending midnight August 21, 1957, who are direct descendants of persons whose names appear on the roll prepared and
approved pursuant to the act of June 4, 1924 (43 Stat. 376), and the act of March 4, 1931 (46 Stat. 1518); provided, such persons:
(1) Who applied for membership before August 14, 1963 possess at least
1/32
degree of Eastern Cherokee Indian blood, and those persons who apply for membership on or after August 14, 1963, possess at least
1/16
degree Eastern Cherokee Indian blood, except that persons who also possess Indian blood of another tribe shall not be enrolled if they are enrolled as members of the other tribe.
(2) Have themselves or have parents who have maintained and dwelt in a home at sometime during the period from June 4, 1924, through August 21, 1957, on the lands of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians in the counties of Swain, Jackson, Graham, Cherokee and Haywood in North Carolina, except that this specific part of this section shall not apply to those persons and members of their families who were temporarily away from the Reservation due to one or both parents being in the U.S. Armed Services or who were employed by the U.S. Government and neither shall it apply to those individuals who were in mental or penal institutions during this period of time.
(3) Have filed an application for enrollment with the Band in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part.
(b) A child born out of wedlock to a mother who is either an enrolled member of the Band, or who meets the qualifications for enrollment as a member, may be enrolled if such child otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment as set forth in this section.
(c) A child born out of wedlock to a mother who is not a member of the Band may be enrolled if the mother files with the Enrollment Committee proof established in accordance with the laws of North Carolina as to the paternity of the child and the person adjudged to be the father is either an enrolled member of the Band, or meets the requirements for enrollment as a member, and if the child otherwise meet the requirements for enrollment as set forth in this section.
[24 FR 201, Jan. 8, 1959, as amended at 25 FR 2516, Mar. 25, 1960; 28 FR 8314, Aug. 14, 1963. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.7
Applications for enrollment.
Each adult person who believes he meets the requirements for enrollment established herein may submit to the Tribal Enrollment Office an application for enrollment as a member of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians.
[38 FR 9998, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.8
Applications for minors and incompetents.
Applications for enrollment of minors may be filed by the parent, next of kin, recognized guardian, or other person responsible for their care. Applications for enrollment of persons known to be in mental or penal institutions may be filed by the Principal Chief of the Eastern Band of Cherokee.
[38 FR 9998, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.9
Application form.
The form of application for enrollment will be prepared by the Tribal Enrollment Office and, in addition to whatever information the Enrollment Committee may deem necessary, shall contain the following:
(a) The name and address of the applicant. If the application is filed on behalf of a minor, the name and address of the person filing the application and his relationship to the minor.
(b) The name, relationship, tribe and roll number of the ancestor or ancestors through whom enrollment rights are claimed, and whether applicant is enrolled with another tribe.
(c) The date of death of such ancestor, if deceased.
[38 FR 9998, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.10
Where application forms may be obtained.
Application forms will be supplied by the Tribal Enrollment Office of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, Council House, Cherokee, N.C. 28719,
upon request, either in person or by mail.
[38 FR 9998, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.11
Proof of relationship.
If the applicant's parents or other Eastern Cherokee ancestors through whom the applicant claims enrollment rights are unknown to the Tribal Enrollment Office, the Tribal Enrollment Office may request the applicant to furnish such additional information and evidence as it may deem necessary to determine the applicant's eligibility for enrollment. Failure of the applicant to furnish the information requested may be deemed sufficient cause for rejection.
[38 FR 9998, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.12
Enrollment Committee.
The Tribal Council shall appoint either from within or without the membership of the Council, but not from without the membership of the Band, a committee of three (3) persons to serve as the Enrollment Committee. The Enrollment Committee shall review all applications for enrollment filed in accordance with the existing regulations, and shall determine the qualifications of the applicant for enrollment with the Band. The Enrollment Committee may perform such other functions relating to the enrollment and membership in the Band as the Tribal Council may from time to time direct.
[38 FR 9999, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.13
Tenure of Enrollment Committee.
The members of the Enrollment Committee shall be appointed to serve a term of office of 2 years by each newly elected Tribal Council.
[38 FR 9999, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.14
Appeals.
Any person whose application for enrollment has been rejected by the Enrollment Committee shall have the right to appeal to the Tribal Council from the determination made by the Enrollment Committee:
Provided,
That such appeal shall be made in writing and shall be filed in the office of the Principal Chief for presentation to the Tribal Council within sixty (60) days from the date on which the Enrollment Committee issues notice to the applicant of his rejection. The applicant may submit with his appeal any additional data to support his claim to enrollment not previously furnished. The decision of the Tribal Council as to whether the applicant meets the requirements for enrollment set forth in this part shall be final. The Tribal Council shall review no applications for enrollment except in those cases where the rejected applicant appeals to the Council in writing from the determination made by the Enrollment Committee.
[38 FR 9999, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.15
Current membership roll.
The membership roll of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians shall be kept current by striking therefrom the names of persons who have relinquished their membership in the Band as provided in § 75.17 and of deceased persons upon receipt of a death certificate or other evidence of death acceptable to the Tribal Enrollment Office, and by adding thereto the names of individuals who meet the qualifications and are accepted for membership in the Band as set forth in this part.
[38 FR 9999, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.16
Eligibility for enrollment of persons born after August 21, 1957.
(a) Persons possessing one-sixteenth or more degree Eastern Cherokee Indian blood and born after August 21, 1957, may be enrolled in either of the following manners:
(1) An application to have the person enrolled must be filed by or on behalf of the person by the parent or recognized guardian or person responsible for his care, which application shall be accompanied by the applicant's birth certificate or by other evidence of eligibility of the applicant for enrollment that the Tribal Enrollment Office may require.
(2) In the absence of such application within 6 months after a person's birth, the Tribal Enrollment Office shall be authorized and encouraged to obtain evidence relating to the eligibility of the person for enrollment in the Eastern Band, and present an application in his behalf to the Enrollment Committee which may proceed to enroll the person if the evidence submitted meets the criteria.
(b) A person adopted in accordance with applicable laws by either tribal members or nonmembers, shall be considered for enrollment as a tribal member if the person otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment.
(c) A person born to an enrolled member of the Band and an enrolled member of another Tribe, and said person is enrolled in the other Tribe, may be transferred from the rolls of the other and added to the rolls of the Eastern Band if he meets the general requirements for enrollment and, in addition:
(1) A death certificate or other acceptable evidence of the death of the parent enrolled in the other Tribe is received and the surviving parent who is a member of the Eastern Band makes application for enrollment by way of transfer.
(2) Upon receipt of divorce documents in the Tribal Enrollment Office, there is evidence of custody of the minors being awarded to the parent who is a member of the Band and the parent awarded custody makes application for enrollment of the minors with the Eastern Band by way of transfer.
(d) In order for a child to be enrolled under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, either:
(1) An application to have the child enrolled must be filed on behalf of the child by the parent or recognized guardian or person responsible for his care, which application shall be accompanied by the child's birth certificate or by other evidence as to the eligibility of the child for enrollment as the Enrollment Committee may require, which application must be filed within one year from the date of birth of such child, or
(2) In the absence of such application, the Tribal Enrollment Committee may on its own motion, proceed to enroll any eligible child upon receipt by it of such evidence as shall satisfy the Committee as to the eligibility of the child to be enrolled, within one year from date of birth of such child.
[28 FR 8315, Aug. 14, 1963, as amended at 29 FR 9326, July 8, 1964; 38 FR 9999, Apr. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.17
Relinquishment of membership.
Any member of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians may relinquish his membership in the Band by filing notice in writing that he no longer desires to be enrolled as a member of the Band. On receipt of such notice the name of the members shall be stricken from the roll and he shall no longer be considered as a member of the Band and shall not be entitled to share in any use or in any distribution of tribal assets which may be made in the future to the enrolled members of the Band.
§ 75.18
Adoption.
The Tribal Council of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians shall be empowered to enact ordinances governing the adoption of new members.
[39 FR 43391, Dec. 13, 1974. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 75.19
Distribution of judgment funds.
The membership roll of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians of North Carolina will be brought up to date as of October 10, 1974, to serve as the basis for distributing certain judgment funds awarded to the Band in Indian Claims Commission dockets 282-A through L.
(a) Filing of and action on applications shall be in accordance with regulations in this part 75, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
(b) In lieu of notice provisions contained in § 75.3, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or his authorized representative shall provide notice of the bringing up to date of the membership roll through publication of these amended regulations in the
Federal Register
and through appropriate press releases and other public notices.
(c) Application forms may be obtained from the Tribal Enrollment Office of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, Council House, Cherokee,
North Carolina 28719. Completed applications must be received by the Tribal Enrollment Office no later than midnight January 8, 1975.
(d) Requests for applications for enrollment in the Band received after midnight of the deadline date will not be furnished until after the funds have been distributed.
(e) In lieu of the procedures given in § 75.14, appeals from rejected applicants must be in writing and filed pursuant to part 62 of this subchapter, a copy of which shall be furnished with each notice of rejection.
(f) The Tribal Council and the Superintendent shall attach separate statements to the roll certifying that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the roll contains only the names of those persons who were determined to meet the requirements for enrollment. The roll shall then be submitted through the Area Director to the Commissioner for approval.
(g) To facilitate the work of the Tribal Enrollment Committee the Commissioner may issue special instructions not inconsistent with the regulations in this part 75.
[39 FR 43391, Dec. 13, 1974. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
Pt. 81

# PART 81—SECRETARIAL ELECTION PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—Purpose and Scope
Sec.
81.1
What is the purpose of this part?
81.2
When does this part apply?
81.3
Information collection.

# Subpart B—Definitions
81.4
What terms do I need to know?

# Subpart C—Provisions Applicable to All Secretarial Elections
81.5
What informal review is available to a tribe or petitioner when anticipating adopting or amending a governing document?
81.6
How is a Secretarial election requested?
81.7
What technical assistance will the Bureau provide after receiving a request for election?
81.8
What happens if a governing Federal statute and this part disagree?
81.9
Will the Secretary give deference to the Tribe's interpretation of its own documents?
81.10
Who may cast a vote in a Secretarial election?
81.11
May a tribe establish a voting age different from 18 years of age for Secretarial elections?
81.12
What type of electioneering is allowed before and during a Secretarial election?
81.13
What types of voting assistance are provided for a Secretarial election?
81.14
May Secretarial elections be scheduled at the same time as tribal elections?
81.15
How are conflicting proposals to amend a single document handled?
81.16
Who pays for holding the Secretarial election?
81.17
May a tribe use its funds to pay non-Federal election officials?
81.18
Who can withdraw a request for a Secretarial election?

# Subpart D—The Secretarial Election Process under the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA)
81.19
How does the Bureau proceed after receiving a request for a Secretarial election?
81.20
What is the first action to be taken by the Chair of the Election Board?
81.21
What are the responsibilities of the Secretarial Election Board in conducting a Secretarial election?
81.22
How is the Secretarial election conducted?
81.23
What documents are included in the Secretarial Election Notice Packet?
81.24
What information must be included on the Secretarial election notice?
81.25
Where will the Secretarial election notice be posted?
81.26
How does BIA use the information I provide on the registration form?
81.27
Must I re-register if I have already registered for a tribal or Secretarial election?
81.28
How do I submit my registration form?
81.29
Why does the Secretarial Election Board compile a Registered Voters List?
81.30
What information is contained in the Registered Voters List?
81.31
Where is the Registered Voters List posted?
81.32
May the Registered Voters List be challenged?
81.33
How does the Secretarial Election Board respond to challenges?
81.34
How are the official ballots prepared?
81.35
When must the Secretarial Election Board send ballots to voters?
81.36
What will the mailout or absentee ballot packet include?
81.37
How do I cast my vote at a polling site?
81.38
When are ballots counted?
81.39
How does the Board determine whether the required percentage of registered voters have cast ballots?
81.40
What happens if a ballot is spoiled before it is cast?
81.41
Who certifies the results of the Election?
81.42
Where are the results of the Election posted?
81.43
How are the results of the Election challenged?
81.44
What documents are sent to the Authorizing Official?
81.45
When are the results of the Secretarial election final?

# Subpart E—The Secretarial Election Process under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act (OIWA)
81.46
How does the Bureau proceed upon receiving a request for an OIWA Election if no provisions are contrary to applicable law?
81.47
How is the OIWA Secretarial election conducted?
81.48
When are the results of the OIWA Election final?

# Subpart F—Formulating Petitions to Request a Secretarial Election
81.49
What is the purpose of this subpart?
81.50
Who must follow these requirements?
81.51
How do tribal members circulate a petition to adopt or amend the tribe's governing document?
81.52
Who may initiate a petition?
81.53
Who may sign a petition?
81.54
Who is authorized to submit a petition to the Secretary?
81.55
How is the petition formatted and signed?
81.56
Do petitions have a minimum or maximum number of pages?
81.57
How do I determine how many signatures are needed for a petition to be valid?
81.58
How long do tribal members have to gather the signatures?
81.59
How does the spokesperson file a petition?
81.60
How does the Local Bureau Official process the petition?
81.61
How can signatures to the petition be challenged?
81.62
How is the petition validated?
81.63
May the same petition be used for more than one Secretarial election?

# Authority:
: 25 U.S.C. 473a, 476, 477, as amended, and 503.

# Source:
80 FR 63106, Oct. 19, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Scope
§ 81.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part prescribes the Department's procedures for authorizing and conducting elections when Federal statute or the terms of a tribal governing document require the Secretary to conduct and approve an election to:
(a) Adopt, amend, or revoke tribal governing documents; or
(b) Adopt or amend charters.
§ 81.2
When does this part apply?
(a) This part applies only to federally recognized tribes, in the circumstances shown in the following table.
If a tribe wants to . . .
And . . .
(1) Adopt a new governing document to reorganize under Federal statute
The Federal statute requires an election before or after Secretarial approval.
(2) Adopt a new governing document to reorganize outside Federal statute
The governing document requires approval under the Secretary's general authority to approve.
(3) Amend or revoke a governing document adopted under Federal statute
The Federal statute requires an election and approval for amendment or revocation.
(4) Amend or revoke a governing document adopted outside Federal statute
The governing document requires Secretarial approval of an amendment or revocation.
(5) Ratify a federal charter of incorporation
The charter requires Secretarial approval or is being ratified under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act (OIWA).
(6) Amend a federal charter of incorporation
The charter requires a Secretarial election to amend.
(7) Take other action
A Federal statute or tribal law requires a Secretarial election in order to take that action.
(8) Remove the requirement for a Secretarial approval from a governing document
A Federal statute or tribal law requires a Secretarial election in order to take that action.
(b) Secretarial elections will be conducted in accordance with the procedures in this part unless the amendment article of the tribe's governing document provides otherwise and is not contrary to Federal voting qualifications or substantive provisions, in which case the provisions of those documents shall rule, where applicable.
(c) If the amendment provisions of a tribal governing document have become outdated and the amendment cannot be effected under them, and the
recognized tribal governing body requests a Secretarial election, the Bureau may authorize a Secretarial election under this part to amend the documents.
§ 81.3
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in this part are approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3507(d), and has been assigned OMB control number 1076-0183. This information is collected when, under Federal statute or the tribe's governing documents, the Secretarial election is authorized to adopt, amend, or revoke governing documents; or adopt or amend charters. This information is required to obtain or retain benefits. A Federal agency may not collect or sponsor an information collection without a valid OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 81.4
What terms do I need to know?
For purposes of this part:
Absentee ballot
means a ballot the Secretarial Election Board provides to a registered voter, upon request, to allow him or her to vote by mail even though polling sites are used.
Amendment
means any modification or change to one or more provisions of an existing governing document or charter.
Applicable law
means any treaty, statute, Executive Order, regulation, or final decision of a Federal court, which is applicable to the tribe.
Authorizing Official
means the Bureau official with delegated Federal authority to authorize a Secretarial election.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.
Business day
means a weekday (Monday through Friday), excluding Federal holidays.
Cast
means the action of a registered voter, when the ballot is received through the mail by the Secretarial Election Board, or placed in the ballot box at the polling site.
Charter
means a charter of incorporation issued under a Federal statute and ratified by the governing body in accordance with tribal law or, if adopted before May 24, 1990, by a majority vote in an election conducted by the Secretary.
Day
means a calendar day. A Secretarial election may be held on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or his or her authorized representative.
Electioneering
means campaigning for or against the adoption, ratification, revocation or amendment of a proposed governing document or a charter.
Eligible voter
means a tribal member who will be 18 years of age or older on the date of the Secretarial election (and, if the tribe's governing document imposes additional requirements for voting in a Secretarial election, also meets those requirements).
Eligible Voters List
means a list of eligible voters, including their birthdates and their last known mailing addresses. The Eligible Voters List is compiled and certified by the tribe's governing body or the Bureau if the Bureau maintains the current membership roll for the tribe.
Federal statute
means the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA), 25 U.S.C. 476, 477, as amended, the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act (OIWA), 25 U.S.C. 503, and any tribe-specific Federal statute that requires a Secretarial election for the adoption of a governing document.
Final agency action
means the Authorizing Official's approval or disapproval of a Secretarial election or acknowledgment of the tribe's or petitioners' withdrawal of a request for Secretarial election, and is final for the Department.
Governing document
means any written document that prescribes the extent, limitations, and manner in which the tribe exercises its sovereign powers.
Local Bureau office
means the local administrative office of the Bureau that is the primary point of contact between the Bureau and the tribe.
Local Bureau Official
means the Superintendent, Field Representative, or other official having delegated Federal administrative responsibility under this part.
Mailout ballot
means a ballot the Secretarial Election Board provides to a registered voter to allow him or her to vote by mail in an election conducted entirely by mail.
Member of a tribe
or
tribal member
means any person who meets the criteria for membership in a tribe and, if required by the tribe, is formally enrolled.
Petition
means the official document submitted by the petitioners to the Secretary to call a Secretarial election for the purpose of adopting or ratifying a new governing document, amending the tribe's existing governing document, or revoking the tribe's existing governing document.
Petitioner
means a tribal member who is 18 years of age or older (and, if the tribe's governing document imposes additional requirements for petitioning, also meets those requirements), and signs a petition.
Polling site ballot
means the ballot the Secretarial Election Board provides to a registered voter, allowing him or her to vote when polling sites are required by the amendment and adoption article of the tribe's governing document.
Recognized governing body
means the tribe's governing body recognized by the Bureau for the purposes of government-to-government relations.
Registered Voter
means an eligible voter who has registered to vote in the Secretarial election.
Registered Voters List
means the list of all Registered Voters showing only names and, where applicable, voting districts.
Registration
means the process by which an eligible voter signs up to vote in the Secretarial election.
Revocation
means that act whereby the registered voters of a tribe vote to revoke their current governing document.
Secretarial election
means a Federal election conducted by the Secretary under a Federal statute or tribal governing document under this part.
Secretarial Election Board
means the body of officials appointed by the Bureau and the tribe (and the spokesperson for petitioners, as applicable) to conduct the Secretarial election.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her authorized representative.
Spoiled ballot
means the ballot is mismarked, mutilated, rendered impossible to determine the voter's intent, or marked so as to violate the secrecy of the ballot.
Spokesperson for the petitioners
or
spokesperson
means a tribal member who provides a document signed by other tribal members that provides him or her authority to speak or submit a petition on their behalf.
Tribal request
means a request that includes all of the components set out in 81.6.
Tribe
means any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village or community that is listed in the
Federal Register
under 25 U.S.C. 479a—1(a), as recognized and receiving services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Voting district
means a geographic area established to facilitate the voting process, if required, by the amendment and adoption articles of the tribe's governing document.

# Subpart C—Provisions Applicable to All Secretarial Elections
§ 81.5
What informal review is available to a tribe or petitioner when anticipating adopting or amending a governing document?
A tribe that plans to adopt or amend a governing document or a spokesperson for a petitioner may, but is not required to, submit the proposed document with a request for informal review to the Local Bureau Official.
(a) During the informal review:
(1) Bureau personnel will help the tribal government or petitioner spokesperson in drafting governing documents, bylaws, charters, amendments and revocations, explain the Secretarial election process, and provide guidance on methods for voter education, such as informational meetings.
(2) The Local Bureau Official will review the proposed document and will offer technical assistance and comments to the tribe or petitioner spokesperson, including but not limited to guidance on whether any of the provisions of the proposed document or
amendment may be contrary to applicable laws.
(b) The Bureau will provide technical assistance for a petition only upon request of the spokesperson. Bureau personnel will provide a courtesy copy to the tribe's governing body of all correspondence regarding technical assistance to the petitioners. The spokesperson will be responsible for obtaining the approval of the tribal members it represents on changes to the content of the petition.
§ 81.6
How is a Secretarial election requested?
To request a Secretarial election:
(a) The tribe or petitioner must submit:
(1) A duly adopted tribal resolution, tribal ordinance, other appropriate tribal document requesting the Secretary to call a Secretarial election, or, in the absence of an existing governing document or if authorized or required by the existing governing documents, a petition that has been verified by the Bureau as having the minimum number of required signatures of tribal members; and
(2) The exact document or amended language to be voted on; and
(b) The tribe must submit a list in an electronically sortable format with names, last known addresses, dates of birth, and voting district, if any, of all tribal members who:
(1) Will be 18 years of age or older within 120 days of the date of the request; and
(2) Meet any other voting restrictions imposed by the tribe's governing document for voting in the Secretarial election.
§ 81.7
What technical assistance will the Bureau provide after receiving a request for election?
After receiving a tribal request for election under § 81.6, the Bureau will provide the following technical assistance.
(a) The Local Bureau Official will review and make a recommendation on the proposed document or amendment, prepare background information on the tribe, and submit to the Authorizing Official.
(b) The Authorizing Official must do all of the following:
(1) Review the proposed document or amendment and offer technical assistance to the tribe (and spokesperson, for petitions);
(2) Consult with the Office of the Solicitor to determine whether any of the provisions of the proposed document or amendment may be contrary to applicable law; and
(3) Notify the tribe (and spokesperson, for petitions) in writing of the results of the review.
(i) If the review finds that a provision is or may be contrary to applicable law, the notification must explain how the provision may be contrary to applicable law and list changes to the document that would be required to allow the Authorizing Official to approve the document as not contrary to applicable law.
(ii) The notification must be sent to the tribe (and spokesperson, for petitions) promptly but in no case less than 30 days before calling the election.
(iii) For IRA elections, the tribe may choose to proceed with the election without incorporating required changes, but the Authorizing Official may not approve election results ratifying provisions that are contrary to applicable law.
(iv) For OIWA elections, the Authorizing Official may not authorize a Secretarial election on any proposed document that contains provisions that may be contrary to applicable law.
§ 81.8
What happens if a governing Federal statute and this part disagree?
If a conflict appears to exist between this part and a specific requirement of the Federal statute, this part must be interpreted to conform to the statute.
§ 81.9
Will the Secretary give deference to the Tribe's interpretation of its own documents?
The Secretary will give deference to the tribe's reasonable interpretation of the amendment and adoption articles of the tribe's governing documents. The Secretary retains authority, however, to interpret tribal law when necessary to carry out the government-to-
government relationship with the tribe or when a provision, result, or interpretation may be contrary to Federal law.
§ 81.10
Who may cast a vote in a Secretarial election?
If the tribe:
Then the following individuals may cast a vote:
(a) Is reorganizing under Federal statute for the first time,
Any member of the tribe who:
(1) Will be 18 years of age or older on the date of the Secretarial election; and
(2) Has duly registered, regardless of residence or other qualifications contained in the tribe's governing documents or charter
(b) Is already reorganized under Federal statute,
Any member of the tribe who:
(1) Will be 18 years of age or older on the date of the Secretarial election; and
(2) Otherwise meets the qualifications required by the tribe's governing documents or charter for that particular type of Secretarial election; and
(3) Has duly registered.
(c) Is not reorganized under a Federal statute but tribal law requires a Secretarial election
Any member of the tribe who:
(1) Will be 18 years of age or older on the date of the Secretarial election; and
(2) Otherwise meets the qualifications, if any, required by the tribe's governing documents or charter for that particular type of Secretarial election, if any; and
(3) Has duly registered.
§ 81.11
May a tribe establish a voting age different from 18 years of age for Secretarial elections?
No. A Secretarial election is a Federal election. According to the 26th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, adopted July 1, 1971, all individuals 18 years of age and older must be allowed to vote in Federal elections.
§ 81.12
What type of electioneering is allowed before and during Secretarial election?
There shall be no electioneering within 50 feet of the entrance of a polling site.
§ 81.13
What types of voting assistance are provided for a Secretarial election?
If polling sites are required by the amendment or adoption article of the tribe's governing document, the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board will:
(a) Appoint interpreters;
(b) Ensure that audio or visual aids for the hearing or visually impaired are provided;
(c) Ensure that reasonable accommodations are made for others with impairments that would impede their ability to vote; and
(d) Allow the interpreter or Secretarial Election Board member to explain the election process and voting instructions. At the request of the voter, the interpreter or Board member may accompany the voter into the voting booth, but must not influence the voter in casting the ballot.
§ 81.14
May Secretarial elections be scheduled at the same time as tribal elections?
The Secretarial Election Board will, generally, avoid scheduling Secretarial elections at the same time as tribal elections to avoid confusion. If the Secretarial Election Board decides to schedule a Secretarial election at the same time as a tribal election, the Secretarial Election Board must clearly inform eligible voters of any differences between the tribal election and the Secretarial election and separate ballots must be used for each type of election.
§ 81.15
How are conflicting proposals to amend a single document handled?
When conflicting proposals to amend a single provision of a tribal governing document or charter provision are submitted, the proposal first received by the Local Bureau Official, if properly submitted as a complete tribal request, must be voted on before any consideration is given other proposals. Other proposals must be considered in order of their receipt if they are resubmitted following final agency action on the first submission. This procedure applies regardless of whether the proposal is a new or revised tribal governing document.
§ 81.16
Who pays for holding the Secretarial election?
(a) A Secretarial election is a Federal election; therefore, Federal funding will be used to cover costs. The Bureau will pay for the costs, unless the tribe
has received funding for this function through contracts or self-governance compacts entered into under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450f,
et seq.
(b) Once a tribe removes the requirement for Secretarial approval, all subsequent elections it holds to amend the governing document are tribal elections and the tribe is responsible for the costs of those elections.
§ 81.17
May a tribe use its funds to pay non-Federal election officials?
A recognized tribal governing body may use tribal funds to compensate non-Federal personnel to respond to the needs of the tribal government in the conduct of the Secretarial election.
§ 81.18
Who can withdraw a request for a Secretarial election?
The tribe may withdraw the request for Secretarial election in the same manner in which the Secretarial election was requested. The petitioners may withdraw the request for Secretarial election by submitting a new petition, with signatures of at least a majority of the signers of the original petition, seeking withdrawal of the original petition. However, the request for a Secretarial election cannot be withdrawn after the established deadline for voter registration.

# Subpart D—The Secretarial Election Process under the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA)
§ 81.19
How does the Bureau proceed after receiving a request for a Secretarial election?
(a) Upon receiving a request for a Secretarial election, the Local Bureau Official will forward the request to the Authorizing Official with any appropriate background information.
(b) The Authorizing Official will issue a memorandum to the Local Bureau official. The memorandum will do all of the following:
(1) Direct the Local Bureau Official to call and conduct a Secretarial election by one of the following deadlines:
(i) If the tribal request is to amend an existing governing document, within 90 days from the date of receipt of the request;
(ii) If the tribal request is to adopt a new governing document (including an amendment to a governing document in the nature of an entire substitute) or to revoke an existing governing document, within 180 days after receiving the request.
(2) Include as an attachment the document or proposed language to be voted upon;
(3) Include as an attachment the Certificate of Results of Election with instructions to return it after the Secretarial election. The Certificate shall read as follows:

# Certificate of Results of Election
Under a Secretarial election authorized by (name and title of authorizing official) on (date), the attached [insert: Governing document and Bylaws, charter of incorporation, amendment or revocation] of the (official name of tribe) was submitted to the registered voters of the tribe and on (date) duly (insert: adopted, ratified, rejected or revoked) by a vote of (number) for and (number) against and (number) cast ballots found spoiled in an election in which at least 30 percent (or such “percentages” as may be required to amend according the governing document) of the (number) registered voters cast their ballot in accordance with (appropriate Federal statute).
Signed:
(by the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and Board Members)
Date: ________; and
(4) Advise that no changes or modifications can be made to any attached document, without the Authorizing Official's prior approval.
(c) The Local Bureau Official will appoint a Bureau employee to serve as the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and notify the tribe of the need to appoint at least two tribal members, who are at least 18 years of age, to the Secretarial Election Board. If the election is to be held as the result of a petition, then the Local Bureau Official will appoint a Bureau employee to serve as the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and notify the tribe and the spokesperson for the petitioners of the need to appoint one tribal member each, who is at least 18 years of age, to the Secretarial Election Board. If the tribe or spokesperson for the petitioners declines or fails for any reason
to make the appointment(s) by close of business on the 10th day after the date the notice letter is issued, the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board must appoint the representative(s), who are tribal members, if available, on the 11th day after the notice letter is issued.
§ 81.20
What is the first action to be taken by the Chair of the Election Board?
Within 5 days after the Secretarial Election Board representatives are appointed, the Chair must hold the first meeting of the Secretarial Election Board to set the election date.
§ 81.21
What are the responsibilities of the Secretarial Election Board in conducting a Secretarial election?
The Secretarial Election Board conducts the Secretarial election. Except as provided in § 81.43, decisions of the Secretarial Election Board are not subject to administrative appeal.
§ 81.22
How is the Secretarial election conducted?
The Secretarial Election Board:
(a) Uses the list provided in the tribal request as the basis for the Eligible Voters List;
(b) Assembles and mails the Secretarial Election Notice Packet at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the date of the Secretarial election to all persons on the Eligible Voters List;
(c) Confirms that registration forms were received on or before the deadline date;
(d) Retains the completed registration form as part of the record;
(e) Develops the Registered Voters List for posting;
(f) Where the election is conducted entirely by mailout ballot, notes on a copy of the Registered Voters List, by the individual's name, the date the ballot was mailed, and the date the ballot was returned; and
(g) Where polling sites are required and an individual requests an absentee ballot, notes on a copy of the Registered Voters List, by the individual's name, the date his or her absentee ballot request was received, the date the absentee ballot was mailed, and the date the absentee ballot was returned.
§ 81.23
What documents are included in the Secretarial Election Notice Packet?
The Secretarial Election Notice Packet includes the following:
(a) Mailout Balloting:
(1) The Secretarial election notice;
(2) A registration form with instructions for returning the completed form by mail;
(3) An addressed envelope with which to return the completed registration form;
(4) If the entire document is to be amended or adopted, a copy of the proposed document including proposed language; and if applicable, a copy of the current document proposed for change; and
(5) A side-by-side comparison showing the current language to be changed, if applicable, in the left column and the proposed language in the right column.
(b) Polling Sites (if required by the amendment or adoption articles of the tribe's governing document):
(1) The Secretarial election notice;
(2) A registration form with instructions for returning the completed form by mail;
(3) An absentee ballot request form with instructions for returning the completed form by mail;
(4) An addressed envelope with which to return the completed registration form and absentee ballot request form;
(5) If the entire document is to be amended or adopted, a copy of the proposed document including proposed language; and if applicable, a copy of the current document proposed for change; and
(6) A side-by-side comparison showing the current language to be changed, if applicable, in the left column and the proposed language in the right column.
§ 81.24
What information must be included on the Secretarial election notice?
The Secretarial election notice must contain all of the following items.
(a) The date of the Secretarial election;
(b) The date which registration forms must be received by the Secretarial Election Board;
(c) A description of the purpose of the Secretarial election;
(d) A description of the statutory and tribal authority under which the Secretarial election is held;
(e) The deadline for filing challenges to the Registered Voters List;
(f) If polling sites are to be used, the date an absentee ballot request must be received by the Secretarial Election Board;
(g) A statement as to whether the Secretarial election is being held entirely by mailout ballot or with polling sites, in accordance with the tribe's governing document's amendment or adoption articles; and
(h) The locations and hours of established polling sites, if any.
§ 81.25
Where will the Secretarial election notice be posted?
The Secretarial election notice will be posted at the local Bureau office, if any, the tribal headquarters, and other public places determined by the Secretarial Election Board.
§ 81.26
How does BIA use the information I provide on the registration form?
We use the information you provide on the registration form to determine whether you will be registered for and vote in the Secretarial election. The registration form must include the following statements:
(a) Completing and returning this registration is necessary if you desire to vote in the forthcoming Secretarial election;
(b) This form, upon completion and return to the Secretarial Election Board, will be the basis for determining whether your name will be placed upon the list of registered voters, and therefore may receive a ballot, and
(c) Completion and return of this form is voluntary, but failure to do so will prevent you from participating in the Secretarial election.
§ 81.27
Must I re-register if I have already registered for a tribal or Secretarial election?
Yes. A Secretarial election is a Federal election and you must register for each Secretarial election.
§ 81.28
How do I submit my registration form?
You must submit your registration form to the Secretarial Election Board by U.S. mail.
§ 81.29
Why does the Secretarial Election Board compile a Registered Voters List?
The Registered Voters List is a list of eligible voters who have registered and are, therefore, entitled to vote in the Secretarial election. We use this list, after all challenges have been resolved, to determine whether voter participation in the Secretarial election satisfies the minimum requirements of the tribe's governing documents and Federal law.
§ 81.30
What information is contained in the Registered Voters List?
The Registered Voters List must contain the names, in alphabetical order, of all registered voters and their voting districts, if voting districts are required by the tribe's governing document's amendment or adoption articles.
§ 81.31
Where is the Registered Voters List posted?
A copy of the Registered Voters List, showing only names and, where applicable, voting districts, must be posted at the local Bureau office, the tribal headquarters, and other public places the Secretarial Election Board designates.
§ 81.32
May the Registered Voters List be challenged?
(a) It is possible to challenge in writing the inclusion or exclusion or omission of a name on the Registered Voters List. The written challenge must be received by the Secretarial Election Board by the established deadline and include the following:
(1) The name of the affected individual or individuals;
(2) The reason why the individual's name should be added to or removed from the Registered Voters List; and
(3) Supporting documentation.
(b) If an individual failed to submit his or her registration form on time, that individual is precluded from challenging the omission of his/her name from the list.
§ 81.33
How does the Secretarial Election Board respond to challenges?
All challenges must be resolved by close of business on the third day after the date of the challenge deadline established by the Secretarial Election Board and all determinations of the Secretarial Election Board are final for the purpose of determining who can vote in the Secretarial election.
(a) If the challenge was received after the deadline, the Secretarial Election Board must deny the challenge.
(b) If the challenge was received on or before the deadline, the Secretarial Election Board will decide the challenge by reviewing the documentation submitted. Thereafter, the Secretarial Election Board will include the name of any individual whose name should appear or remove the name of any individual who should not appear on the Registered Voters List.
§ 81.34
How are the official ballots prepared?
(a) The Secretarial Election Board must prepare the official ballot so that it is easy for the voters to indicate a choice between no more than two alternatives (
i.e.,
adopting or rejecting the proposed language). Separate ballots should be prepared for each proposed amendment or a single ballot for adoption of a proposed document (with a reference to the document provided in the Secretarial election notice).
(b) The following information must appear on the face of the mailout or absentee ballot:

# OFFICIAL BALLOT
(Facsimile Signature)

# CHAIR, SECRETARIAL ELECTION BOARD
(c) When polling places are required by the tribe's governing document, the official ballot may be a paper ballot, voting machine ballot, or other type of ballot supporting the secret ballot process.
§ 81.35
When must the Secretarial Election Board send ballots to voters?
(a) Unless the amendment or adoption articles of the tribe's governing document require the use of polling sites in the election, the election must be conducted entirely by mailout ballots, and the Secretarial Election Board must send mailout ballots to registered voters promptly upon completion of the Registered Voters List.
(b) When the amendment or adoption articles of the tribe's governing document require the use of polling sites in the election, the Secretarial Election Board must send an absentee ballot to every registered voter who requests an absentee ballot, as long as the request is received before the Secretarial election date.
(c) All mailout or absentee ballot deliveries must be via U.S. Mail or by hand-delivery to the location identified in the Secretarial election notice before the date of the Secretarial election.
§ 81.36
What will the mailout or absentee ballot packet include?
The mailout or absentee ballot packet contains:
(a) A cover letter summarizing what the ballot packet contains and, if there is more than one ballot included in the packet, enumerating the ballots and advising voters to give consideration to each enumerated ballot;
(b) A mailout or absentee ballot (or, if several amendments are to be voted on, multiple ballots, each printed on a different colored sheet if possible);
(c) Instructions for voting by mailout or absentee ballot including the date the ballot must be received by the Secretarial Election Board;
(d) An inner envelope with the words “Mailout Ballot” or “Absentee Ballot” printed on the outside, as applicable;
(e) A copy of the proposed governing document or amendment, if the full text is not printed on the mailout ballot and if the entire document is to be amended or adopted; and
(f) A pre-addressed outer envelope with the following certification printed on the back:
I, (print name of voter), hereby certify I am a registered voter of the (name of Tribe); I will be 18 years of age or older on the day of the Secretarial election; I am entitled to vote in the Secretarial election to be held on (date of Secretarial election). I further certify that I marked the enclosed mailout ballot in secret.
Signed:
(voter's signature)
§ 81.37
How do I cast my vote at a polling site?
If polling sites are required by the tribe's governing document's amendment or adoption articles, the Secretarial Election Board will establish procedures for how polling site ballots will be presented and collected, including, but not limited to, paper ballots, voting machines, or other methods supporting a secret ballot.
§ 81.38
When are ballots counted?
The ballots will be counted under the supervision of the Secretarial Election Board, after the deadline established for receiving all ballots or closing of the polls, if polling sites are required by the tribe's governing document's amendment or adoption articles.
§ 81.39
How does the Board determine whether the required percentage of registered voters have cast ballots?
The Secretarial Election Board must count the number of valid ballots and cast spoiled ballots to determine total voter participation. The Board must take the total voter participation and divide it by the total number of Registered Voters. This total is used to determine whether the percentage of Registered Voters who cast votes meets the requirements of the tribe's governing documents or Federal statute that requires at least 30 percent voter participation. For example:
(a) If there were 200 registered voters of which 75 cast valid ballots and 5 cast spoiled ballots for a total of 80 cast ballots (75 + 5 = 80). The percentage of voter participation would be determined as follows:
Total number of votes cast (80) divided by the total number registered voters (200) or 80 ÷ 200 = 0.40 or 40 percent voter participation.
(b) This example meets the Federal statutory requirement of at least 30 percent voter participation.
§ 81.40
What happens if a ballot is spoiled before it is cast?
If a ballot is spoiled before it is cast, this section applies.
(a) The registered voter may return the spoiled ballot to the Secretarial Election Board by mail or in person at the local Bureau office with a request for a new ballot before the election date. The new ballot will be promptly provided to the registered voter. The Secretarial Election Board must retain all “spoiled uncast ballots” for recordkeeping purposes.
(b) If polling sites are required, the voter may return the spoiled ballot to the polling site worker and request a new ballot. Upon receiving the new ballot, the voter must then complete the voting process. The polling site worker will mark the spoiled ballot “spoiled uncast” and record that the ballot has been spoiled. The polling site worker must retain all “spoiled uncast ballots” for recordkeeping purposes.
§ 81.41
Who certifies the results of the Election?
The Chair and all members of the Secretarial Election Board must be present during the counting of the ballots and must sign the Certificate of Results of Election.
§ 81.42
Where are the results of the Election posted?
The Secretarial Election Board must post a copy of the Certificate of Results of Election at the local Bureau office, the tribal headquarters, and at other public places listed in the election notice. The Board also has the discretion to publicize the results using additional methods, such as by posting on the tribe's Web site.
§ 81.43
How are the results of the Election challenged?
Any person who was listed on the Eligible Voters List and who submitted a voter registration form may challenge the results of the Secretarial election.
The written challenge, with substantiating evidence, must be received by the Chairman of the Secretarial Election Board within 5 days after the Certificate of Results of Election is posted, not including the day the Certificate of Results of Election is posted. Challenges received after the deadline for filing challenges will not be considered. If the third day falls on a weekend or Federal holiday, the challenge must be received by close of business on the next business day.
§ 81.44
What documents are sent to the Authorizing Official?
The Chair of the Secretarial Election Board must transmit all documents pertaining to the Secretarial election to the Authorizing Official, including:
(a) The original text of the material voted on;
(b) The Eligible Voters List;
(c) The Registered Voters List;
(d) The Secretarial Election Notice Packet;
(e) Any challenges to the Secretarial election results; and
(f) The Certificate of Results of Election.
§ 81.45
When are the results of the Secretarial election final?
The Authorizing Official will review election results and challenges, if any, as follows:
(a) If a challenge alleges errors that would invalidate the election, and the Authorizing Official sustains any such challenges, the Authorizing Official must authorize a recount or call for a new Secretarial election. The Authorizing Official will take the appropriate steps necessary to provide for a recount or a new Secretarial election.
(b) If all challenges are denied or dismissed, the Authorizing Official will review and make a decision based on the following:
(1) The percentage of total votes cast was at least 30 percent, or other percentages required according to the tribe's governing document's amendment or adoption articles.
(2) The voters rejected or accepted the proposed document or each proposed amendment; and
(3) The proposed documents or amendments are not contrary to Federal law.
(c) The Authorizing Official must notify, in writing, the recognized governing body of the tribe, and the Director of the Bureau, of the following:
(1) The decisions on challenges;
(2) The outcome of the voting;
(3) Whether the proposed governing document, proposed amendment(s) or charter or charter amendments are approved or ratified, or if the proposed documents contain language that is contrary to Federal law and, therefore, disapproved; and
(4) That the decision is a final agency action.
(d) The Authorizing Official must:
(1) Forward the original text of the document, Original Certificate of Approval or Disapproval, and the Certificate of Results of Election to the tribe and a copy of all documents to the Bureau Director; and
(2) Retain, as required by the Records Disposition Schedule, a copy of all document(s) relevant to the Secretarial election.
(e) If the certified election results show that the tribal members ratified the documents, but the Authorizing Official does not approve or disapprove the governing document or amendment by close of business on the 45th day after the date of the Secretarial election, the Secretary's approval of the documents must be considered as given.
(f) The Authorizing Official's decision to approve or disapprove the governing document or amendment is a final agency action.

# Subpart E—The Secretarial Election Process Under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act (OIWA)
§ 81.46
How does the Bureau proceed upon receiving a request for an OIWA Election if no provisions are contrary to applicable law?
If the proposed document does not contain any provision that may be contrary to applicable law, the Bureau will take the following steps.
(a) The Authorizing Official will issue a memorandum to the Local Bureau Official:
(1) Approving the proposed document or proposed amendments;
(2) Authorizing the Local Bureau Official to call and conduct a Secretarial election, within 90 days from the date of receiving the tribal request;
(3) Attaching the document or proposed language to be voted upon;
(4) Attaching the Certificate of Results of Election, with instructions to return it at the conclusion of the Secretarial election. The Certificate shall read as follows:

# Certificate of Results of Election
Under a Secretarial election authorized by (name and title of authorizing official) on (date), the attached [insert: Governing document and Bylaws, charter of incorporation, amendment or revocation] of the (official name of tribe) was submitted to the registered voters of the tribe and on (date) duly (insert: adopted, ratified, rejected or revoked) by a vote of (number) for and (number) against and (number) cast ballots found spoiled in an election in which at least 30 percent (or such “percentages” as may be required to amend according the governing document) of the (number) registered voters cast their ballot in accordance with (appropriate Federal statute).
Signed: ______________________________________
(by the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and Board Members)
Date: __________________________________.; and
(5) Advising that no changes or modifications can be made to any of the attached documents, without prior approval from the Authorizing Official.
(b) The Local Bureau Official will appoint the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and notify the tribe of the need to appoint at least two tribal members to the Secretarial Election Board. If the election is to be held as the result of a petition, then the Local Bureau Official will appoint a Bureau employee to serve as the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and notify the tribe and the spokesperson for the petitioners of the need to appoint one tribal member each, who is at least 18 years of age, to the Secretarial Election Board. If the tribe or spokesperson declines or fails for any reason to make the appointment(s) by close of business on the 10th day after the date the notice letter is issued, the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board must appoint the representative(s), who are tribal members, if available, on the 11th day after the notice letter is issued.
§ 81.47
How is the OIWA Secretarial election conducted?
After the Chair of the Election Board receives the authorization of the Election, the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board will conduct the election following the procedures set out in §§ 81.19 through § 81.45 of subpart D.
§ 81.48
When are the results of the OIWA Election final?
(a) If a challenge is sustained and has an effect on the outcome of the election, the Authorizing Official must authorize a recount or call for a new Secretarial election. The Authorizing Official will take the appropriate steps necessary to provide for a recount or a new Secretarial election.
(b) If the challenges are denied or dismissed, the Authorizing Official will review and determine whether:
(1) The percentage of total votes cast was at least 30 percent, or such percentages as may be required according to the tribe's governing document's amendment or adoption articles; and
(2) The voters ratified or rejected the proposed document, proposed amendment or revocation.
(c) The Authorizing Official must notify, in writing, the recognized governing body of the tribe, and the Director of the Bureau, of the following:
(1) The decisions on challenges;
(2) The outcome of the voting; and
(3) That the proposed document, proposed amendments or revocation becomes effective as of the date of the Secretarial election; and
(4) That the decision is a final agency action.
(d) The Authorizing Official must:
(1) Forward the original text of the document, Original Certificate of Approval, and the Certificate of Results of Election to the tribe and a copy of all documents to the Director of the Bureau; and
(2) Retain, as required by the Records Disposition Schedule, a copy of all document(s) relevant to the Secretarial election.

# Subpart F—Formulating Petitions To Request a Secretarial Election
§ 81.49
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes requirements for formulating and submitting petitions to request the Secretary to call a Secretarial election as required by the governing documents or charters of incorporation of tribes issued under the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA), 25 U.S.C. 476 and 477, as amended, and the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act (OIWA), 25 U.S.C. 503. This Subpart may also be used by a federally recognized tribe that is adopting a governing document, under Federal statute, for the first time.
§ 81.50
Who must follow these requirements?
Any tribe meeting the criteria in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must follow the requirements of this subpart.
(a) A tribe whose governing document or charter of incorporation provides for petitioning the Secretary to call a Secretarial election for any of the following purposes:
(1) Amending or revoking the governing document;
(2) Amending a charter of incorporation ratified under 25 U.S.C. 477 of the IRA before May 24, 1990 where the amendments section or article specifically requires it;
(3) Amending or ratifying a charter of incorporation under 25 U.S.C. 503 of the OIWA; or
(4) Taking any other action authorized by the governing document or charter of incorporation.
(b) A federally recognized tribe, without an existing governing document, adopting a governing document under Federal statute, for the first time.
§ 81.51
How do tribal members circulate a petition to adopt or amend the tribe's governing document?
Tribal members wishing to circulate a petition to adopt or amend the tribe's governing document may submit the proposed document to the Local Bureau Official for review and comment. The Local Bureau Official may help the petitioners in drafting governing documents, bylaws, charters, amendments and revocations. The Bureau may also explain the Secretarial election process.
§ 81.52
Who may initiate a petition?
A member of the tribe who is 18 years of age or older whose tribe's governing document or charter of incorporation permits tribal members to petition the Secretary to authorize a Secretarial election.
§ 81.53
Who may sign a petition?
A member of the tribe who is 18 years of age or older may sign a petition. Where the tribe's governing document imposes additional requirements (other than age requirements) on who may petition, those requirements also apply.
§ 81.54
Who is authorized to submit a petition to the Secretary?
The petitioners must designate a spokesperson to submit the petition and act on their behalf for the petitioning process.
§ 81.55
How is the petition formatted and signed?
(a) Each page of the petition must contain:
(1) A summary of the purpose of the petition, or proposed document, or proposed amendment language;
(2) Numbered lines for each individual to print their legal name, current mailing address, date, and signature, and;
(3) The following declaration at the bottom of each page to confirm the collector was present when each signature was collected:
“I,
(Collector's Printed Name)
, hereby declare that each individual whose name appears above signed and dated the petition. To the best of my knowledge, the individual signing the petition is a member of the tribe and is 18 years or older.
(Signature of Collector)
(Notary Certification)”,
(b) Each individual must print their legal name, current mailing address, date, and sign on a numbered line.
(c) Each collector must complete and sign the declaration on each page in front of a notary, who will sign and certify.
§ 81.56
Do petitions have a minimum or maximum number of pages?
A petition can have as many pages as necessary to obtain the required signatures. However, each page must have the information shown in § 81.58 of this subpart.
§ 81.57
How do I determine how many signatures are needed for a petition to be valid?
(a) For a tribe whose governing document or charter of incorporation provides for petitioning the Secretary to call a Secretarial election:
(1) The spokesperson for the petitioners may ask the tribe or the Local Bureau Official how many signatures are required.
(2) The Local Bureau Official will:
(i) Contact the tribal governing body to obtain the current number of tribal members, 18 years of age or older, to determine the number of tribal members who must sign a petition as required by the tribe's governing document; and
(ii) Notify the petitioners' spokesperson how many signatures are required and that the number is valid for 180 days from the date of this notification.
(b) For a federally recognized tribe adopting a governing document under Federal statute for the first time, the petition must have signatures of 50 percent of the tribal members who are 18 years of age or older.
§ 81.58
How long do tribal members have to gather the signatures?
Tribal members have one year from the date of the first signature to gather the required signatures.
§ 81.59
How does the spokesperson file a petition?
The spokesperson must submit the original petition to the Local Bureau Official.
§ 81.60
How does the Local Bureau Official process the petition?
(a) The Local Bureau Official must, on the date of receipt, date stamp the petition to record the Official Filing Date, and make four copies of the petition for use as follows:
(1) Posting at the local Bureau office for 30 days from the Official Filing Date, including a statement of the proposal contained in the petition and instructions for filing a challenge;
(2) Use in determining sufficiency of petition; and
(3) For viewing at the Local Bureau Office by a member of the tribe, 18 years of age or older.
(b) The Local Bureau Official must, within one week of the Official Filing Date:
(1) Provide the spokesperson written acknowledgment of receiving the petition, which contains the Official Filing Date, the exact number of signatures submitted on the petition, and the statement “The petitioners may not add or withdraw any signatures from the petition after the Official Filing Date”; and
(2) Provide a copy of the written acknowledgment of receipt and petition to the recognized tribal governing body.
(c) The Local Bureau Official must:
(1) Consult with the Office of the Solicitor to determine if any of the provisions that are the subject of the petition are or may be contrary to applicable law; and
(2) If it appears that a provision is or may be contrary to applicable law, notify the petitioner's spokesperson in writing (with a copy to the recognized tribal governing body) how the provision may be contrary to applicable law.
(d) The Local Bureau Official must promptly notify the petitioners (with a copy to the recognized tribal governing body) of any problems identified under paragraph (c) of this section at least 30 days before calling the election.
§ 81.61
How can signatures to the petition be challenged?
Any member of the tribe, 18 years of age or older, may challenge in writing the signatures appearing on the petition. The challenge must be submitted to the Local Bureau Official, within 30 days of the Official Filing Date of the petition and must:
(a) Identify the page and line on which a signature appears; and
(b) Provide documentation supporting a challenge that at least one of the following is true:
(1) A signature was forged;
(2) An individual was ineligible to sign the petition;
(3) A petition page is inconsistent or improperly formatted; or
(4) A petition page contains an incomplete or un-notarized declaration statement.
§ 81.62
How is the petition validated?
(a) The Local Bureau Official must:
(1) Confirm the petition has the required number of signatures;
(2) Indicate any signatures appearing more than once and include only one in the count;
(3) Make recommendations regarding any challenge to the validity of signatures based upon the documentation provided by the challenger; and
(4) Verify the petitioning procedures complied with this Subpart.
(5) Transmit within 45 calendar days of the Official Filing Date the original petition, challenges, and recommendations to the Authorizing Official.
(b) The Authorizing Official must within 60 calendar days of the Official Filing Date:
(1) Determine whether the petition complies with the requirements of this Subpart;
(2) Inform the spokesperson for the petitioners and the recognized tribal governing body, in writing, whether the petition is valid, the basis for that determination, and a statement that the decision of the Authorizing Official is a final agency action.
(i) If the petition is determined valid for the purposes of calling a Secretarial election, it will be deemed a “tribal request” for the purposes of this part, and the Authorizing Official will instruct the Local Bureau Official to call and conduct the Secretarial election in accordance with §§ 81.19 through 81.45 of subpart D.
(ii) If the petition is determined invalid, the Authorizing Official will notify the spokesperson for the petitioners, with a courtesy copy to the tribe's governing body, that the petition was not valid and a Secretarial election will not be called.
§ 81.63
May the same petition be used for more than one Secretarial election?
No. A petition may not be used for more than one Secretarial election. Each request for a Secretarial election requires a new petition.
PART 82 [RESERVED]
Pt. 83

# PART 83—PROCEDURES FOR FEDERAL ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF INDIAN TRIBES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
83.1
What terms are used in this part?
83.2
What is the purpose of the regulations in this part?
83.3
Who does this part apply to?
83.4
Who cannot be acknowledged under this part?
83.5
How does a petitioner obtain Federal acknowledgment under this part?
83.6
What are the Department's duties?
83.7
How does this part apply to documented petitions submitted before July 31, 2015?
83.8
May the deadlines in this part be extended?
83.9
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect the information collections in this part?

# Subpart B—Criteria for Federal Acknowledgment
83.10
How will the Department evaluate each of the criteria?
83.11
What are the criteria for acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe?
83.12
What are the criteria for a previously federally acknowledged petitioner?

# Subpart C—Process for Federal Acknowledgment

# Documented Petition Submission
83.20
How does an entity request Federal acknowledgment?
83.21
What must a documented petition include?
83.22
What notice will OFA provide upon receipt of a documented petition?

# Review of Documented Petition
83.23
How will OFA determine which documented petition to consider first?
83.24
What opportunity will the petitioner have to respond to comments before OFA reviews the petition?
83.25
Who will OFA notify when it begins review of a documented petition?
83.26
How will OFA review a documented petition?
83.27
What are technical assistance reviews?
83.28
When does OFA review for previous Federal acknowledgment?
83.29
What will OFA consider in its reviews?
83.30
Can a petitioner withdraw its documented petition?
83.31
Can OFA suspend review of a documented petition?

# Proposed Finding
83.32
When will OFA issue a proposed finding?
83.33
What will the proposed finding include?
83.34
What notice of the proposed finding will OFA provide?

# Comment and Response Periods, Hearing
83.35
What opportunity will there be to comment after OFA issues the proposed finding?
83.36
What procedure follows the end of the comment period for a favorable proposed finding?
83.37
What procedure follows the end of the comment period on a negative proposed finding?
83.38
What options does the petitioner have at the end of the response period on a negative proposed finding?
83.39
What is the procedure if the petitioner elects to have a hearing before an ALJ?

# AS-IA Evaluation and Preparation of Final Determination
83.40
When will the Assistant Secretary begin review?
83.41
What will the Assistant Secretary consider in his/her review?
83.42
When will the Assistant Secretary issue a final determination?
83.43
How will the Assistant Secretary make the final determination decision?
83.44
Is the Assistant Secretary's final determination final for the Department?
83.45
When will the final determination be effective?
83.46
How is a petitioner with a positive final determination integrated into Federal programs as a federally recognized Indian tribe?

# Subpart D—Re-Petition Authorization Process
83.47
Who can seek authorization to re-petition under this subpart?
83.48
When will the Department allow a re-petition?
83.49
How long does an unsuccessful petitioner have to submit a request for authorization to re-petition?
83.50
How does an unsuccessful petitioner request authorization to re-petition?
83.51
What notice will OFA provide upon receipt of a request for authorization to re-petition?
83.52
What opportunity to comment will there be before the Assistant Secretary reviews the re-petition request?
83.53
How will the Assistant Secretary determine which re-petition request to consider first?
83.54
Who will OFA notify when the Assistant Secretary begins review of a re-petition request?
83.55
What will the Assistant Secretary consider in his/her review?
83.56
Can a petitioner withdraw its re-petition request?
83.57
When will the Assistant Secretary issue a decision on a re-petition request?
83.58
Can AS-IA suspend review of a re-petition request?
83.59
How will the Assistant Secretary make the decision on a re-petition request?
83.60
What notice of the Assistant Secretary's decision will OFA provide?
83.61
When will the Assistant Secretary's decision become effective, and can it be appealed?
83.62
What happens if some portion of this subpart is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 5131; 25 U.S.C. 5130 note (Congressional Findings); and 43 U.S.C. 1457.

# Source:
80 FR 37887, July 1, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 83.1
What terms are used in this part?
As used in this part:
ALJ
means an administrative law judge in the Departmental Cases Hearings Division, Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA), Department of the Interior, appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Assistant Secretary
or
AS-IA
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior, or that officer's authorized representative, but does not include representatives of the Office of Federal Acknowledgment.
Autonomous
means independent of the control of any other Indian governing entity.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior.
Continental United States
means the contiguous 48 states and Alaska.
Department
means the Department of the Interior, including the Assistant Secretary and OFA.
Documented petition
means the detailed arguments and supporting documentary evidence submitted by a petitioner claiming that it meets the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Governing Document (§ 83.11(d)), Descent (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership (§ 83.11(f)), and Congressional Termination (§ 83.11(g)) Criteria and claiming that it:
(1) Demonstrates previous Federal acknowledgment under § 83.12(a) and meets the criteria in § 83.12(b); or
(2) Meets the Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria.
Federally recognized Indian tribe
means an entity listed on the Department of the Interior's list under the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, which the Secretary currently acknowledges as an Indian tribe and with which the United States maintains a government-to-government relationship.
Historical
means before 1900.
Indigenous
means native to the continental United States in that at least part of the petitioner's territory at the time of first sustained contact extended into what is now the continental United States.
Member of a petitioner
means an individual who is recognized by the petitioner as meeting its membership criteria and who consents to being listed as a member of the petitioner.
Office of Federal Acknowledgment
or
OFA
means the Office of Federal Acknowledgment within the Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.
Petitioner
means any entity that has submitted a documented petition to OFA requesting Federal acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe.
Previous Federal acknowledgment
means action by the Federal government clearly premised on identification of a tribal political entity and indicating clearly the recognition of a relationship between that entity and the United States.
Re-petition authorization process
means the process by which the Department handles a request for re-petitioning filed with OFA by an unsuccessful petitioner under §§ 83.47 through 83.62, from receipt to issuance of a decision as to whether the unsuccessful petitioner is authorized to re-petition for acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe. A grant of authorization to re-petition allows a petitioner to proceed through the Federal acknowledgment process by submitting a new documented petition for consideration under subpart C of this part.
Re-petitioning
means, after receiving a negative final determination that is final and effective for the Department and receiving subsequent authorization to re-petition, the submission of a new documented petition for consideration under subpart C of this part.
Roll
means a list exclusively of those individuals who have been determined by the tribe to meet the tribe's membership requirements as set forth in its governing document. In the absence of such a document, a roll means a list of those recognized as members by the tribe's governing body. In either case, those individuals on a roll must have affirmatively demonstrated consent to being listed as members.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior within the Department of the Interior or that officer's authorized representative.
Tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village or community.
Unsuccessful petitioner
means an entity that was denied Federal acknowledgment after petitioning under the acknowledgment regulations at part 54 of this chapter (as they existed before March 30, 1982) or part 83.
[80 FR 37887, July 1, 2015, as amended at 90 FR 3643, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 83.2
What is the purpose of the regulations in this part?
The regulations in this part implement Federal statutes for the benefit of Indian tribes by establishing procedures and criteria for the Department to use to determine whether a petitioner is an Indian tribe eligible for the special programs and services provided
by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. A positive determination will result in Federal recognition status and the petitioner's addition to the Department's list of federally recognized Indian tribes. Federal recognition:
(a) Is a prerequisite to the protection, services, and benefits of the Federal Government available to those that qualify as Indian tribes and possess a government-to-government relationship with the United States;
(b) Means the tribe is entitled to the immunities and privileges available to other federally recognized Indian tribes;
(c) Means the tribe has the responsibilities, powers, limitations, and obligations of other federally recognized Indian tribes; and
(d) Subjects the Indian tribe to the same authority of Congress and the United States as other federally recognized Indian tribes.
§ 83.3
Who does this part apply to?
This part applies only to indigenous entities that are not federally recognized Indian tribes.
§ 83.4
Who cannot be acknowledged under this part?
The Department will not acknowledge:
(a) An association, organization, corporation, or entity of any character formed in recent times unless the entity has only changed form by recently incorporating or otherwise formalizing its existing politically autonomous community;
(b) A splinter group, political faction, community, or entity of any character that separates from the main body of a currently federally recognized Indian tribe, petitioner, or previous petitioner unless the entity can clearly demonstrate it has functioned from 1900 until the present as a politically autonomous community and meets § 83.11(f), even though some have regarded them as part of or associated in some manner with a federally recognized Indian tribe;
(c) An entity that is, or an entity whose members are, subject to congressional legislation terminating or forbidding the government-to-government relationship; or
(d) An entity that previously petitioned and was denied Federal acknowledgment under part 54 of this chapter (as it existed before March 30, 1982) or part 83 (including reconstituted, splinter, spin-off, or component groups who were once part of previously denied petitioners) unless the entity meets the conditions of §§ 83.47 through 83.49.
[80 FR 37887, July 1, 2015, as amended at 90 FR 3643, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 83.5
How does a petitioner obtain Federal acknowledgment under this part?
To be acknowledged as a federally recognized Indian tribe under this part, a petitioner must meet the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Governing Document (§ 83.11(d)), Descent (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership (§ 83.11(f)), and Congressional Termination (§ 83.11(g)) Criteria and must:
(a) Demonstrate previous Federal acknowledgment under § 83.12(a) and meet the criteria in § 83.12(b); or
(b) Meet the Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria.
§ 83.6
What are the Department's duties?
(a) The Department will publish in the
Federal Register,
by January 30 each year, a list of all Indian tribes which the Secretary recognizes to be eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, in accordance with the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994. The list may be published more frequently, if the Assistant Secretary deems it necessary.
(b) OFA will maintain guidelines limited to general suggestions on how and where to conduct research. The guidelines may be supplemented or updated as necessary. OFA will also make available examples of portions of documented petitions in the preferred format, though OFA will accept other formats.
(c) OFA will, upon request, give prospective petitioners suggestions and
advice on how to prepare the documented petition. OFA will not be responsible for the actual research on behalf of the petitioner.
§ 83.7
How does this part apply to documented petitions submitted before August 17, 2015?
(a) Any petitioner who has not submitted a complete documented petition as of July 31, 2015 must proceed under these revised regulations. We will notify these petitioners and provide them with a copy of the revised regulations by July 31, 2015.
(b) By August 31, 2015, OFA will notify each petitioner that has submitted complete documented petitions but has not yet received a final agency decision that it must proceed under these revised regulations unless it chooses by September 29, 2015 to complete the petitioning process under the previous version of the acknowledgment regulations as published in 25 CFR part 83, revised as of April 1, 1994.
(c) Any petitioner who has submitted a documented petition under the previous version of the acknowledgment regulations and chooses to proceed under these revised regulations does not need to submit a new documented petition, but may supplement its petition.
§ 83.8
May the deadlines in this part be extended?
(a) The AS-IA may extend any of the deadlines in this part upon a finding of good cause.
(b) For deadlines applicable to the Department, AS-IA may extend the deadlines upon the consent of the petitioner.
(c) If AS-IA grants a time extension, it will notify the petitioner and those listed in § 83.22(d).
§ 83.9
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect the information collections in this part?
The collections of information contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0104. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the form or regulation requesting the information displays a currently valid OMB Control Number. Send comments regarding this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer—Indian Affairs, 1001 Indian School Road NW, Suite 229, Albuquerque, NM 87104.
[90 FR 3643, Jan. 15, 2025]

# Subpart B—Criteria for Federal Acknowledgment
§ 83.10
How will the Department evaluate each of the criteria?
(a) The Department will consider a criterion in § 83.11 to be met if the available evidence establishes a reasonable likelihood of the validity of the facts relating to that criterion.
(1) The Department will not require conclusive proof of the facts relating to a criterion in order to consider the criterion met.
(2) The Department will require existence of community and political influence or authority be demonstrated on a substantially continuous basis, but this demonstration does not require meeting these criteria at every point in time. Fluctuations in tribal activity during various years will not in themselves be a cause for denial of acknowledgment under these criteria.
(3) The petitioner may use the same evidence to establish more than one criterion.
(4) Evidence or methodology that the Department found sufficient to satisfy any particular criterion in a previous decision will be sufficient to satisfy the criterion for a present petitioner.
(b) When evaluating a petition, the Department will:
(1) Allow criteria to be met by any suitable evidence, rather than requiring the specific forms of evidence stated in the criteria;
(2) Take into account historical situations and time periods for which evidence is demonstrably limited or not available;
(3) Take into account the limitations inherent in demonstrating historical
existence of community and political influence or authority;
(4) Require a demonstration that the criteria are met on a substantially continuous basis, meaning without substantial interruption; and
(5) Apply these criteria in context with the history, regional differences, culture, and social organization of the petitioner.
§ 83.11
What are the criteria for acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe?
The criteria for acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe are delineated in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(a)
Indian entity identification.
The petitioner has been identified as an American Indian entity on a substantially continuous basis since 1900. Evidence that the group's character as an Indian entity has from time to time been denied will not be considered to be conclusive evidence that this criterion has not been met. Evidence to be relied upon in determining a group's Indian identity may include one or a combination of the following, as well as other evidence of identification.
(1) Identification as an Indian entity by Federal authorities.
(2) Relationships with State governments based on identification of the group as Indian.
(3) Dealings with a county, parish, or other local government in a relationship based on the group's Indian identity.
(4) Identification as an Indian entity by anthropologists, historians, and/or other scholars.
(5) Identification as an Indian entity in newspapers and books.
(6) Identification as an Indian entity in relationships with Indian tribes or with national, regional, or state Indian organizations.
(7) Identification as an Indian entity by the petitioner itself.
(b)
Community.
The petitioner comprises a distinct community and demonstrates that it existed as a community from 1900 until the present. Distinct community means an entity with consistent interactions and significant social relationships within its membership and whose members are differentiated from and distinct from nonmembers. Distinct community must be understood flexibly in the context of the history, geography, culture, and social organization of the entity. The petitioner may demonstrate that it meets this criterion by providing evidence for known adult members or by providing evidence of relationships of a reliable, statistically significant sample of known adult members.
(1) The petitioner may demonstrate that it meets this criterion at a given point in time by some combination of two or more of the following forms of evidence or by other evidence to show that a significant and meaningful portion of the petitioner's members constituted a distinct community at a given point in time:
(i) Rates or patterns of known marriages within the entity, or, as may be culturally required, known patterned out-marriages;
(ii) Social relationships connecting individual members;
(iii) Rates or patterns of informal social interaction that exist broadly among the members of the entity;
(iv) Shared or cooperative labor or other economic activity among members;
(v) Strong patterns of discrimination or other social distinctions by non-members;
(vi) Shared sacred or secular ritual activity;
(vii) Cultural patterns shared among a portion of the entity that are different from those of the non-Indian populations with whom it interacts. These patterns must function as more than a symbolic identification of the group as Indian. They may include, but are not limited to, language, kinship organization or system, religious beliefs or practices, and ceremonies;
(viii) The persistence of a collective identity continuously over a period of more than 50 years, notwithstanding any absence of or changes in name;
(ix) Land set aside by a State for the petitioner, or collective ancestors of the petitioner, that was actively used by the community for that time period;
(x) Children of members from a geographic area were placed in Indian boarding schools or other Indian educational institutions, to the extent
that supporting evidence documents the community claimed; or
(xi) A demonstration of political influence under the criterion in § 83.11(c)(1) will be evidence for demonstrating distinct community for that same time period.
(2) The petitioner will be considered to have provided more than sufficient evidence to demonstrate distinct community and political authority under § 83.11(c) at a given point in time if the evidence demonstrates any one of the following:
(i) More than 50 percent of the members reside in a geographical area exclusively or almost exclusively composed of members of the entity, and the balance of the entity maintains consistent interaction with some members residing in that area;
(ii) At least 50 percent of the members of the entity were married to other members of the entity;
(iii) At least 50 percent of the entity members maintain distinct cultural patterns such as, but not limited to, language, kinship system, religious beliefs and practices, or ceremonies;
(iv) There are distinct community social institutions encompassing at least 50 percent of the members, such as kinship organizations, formal or informal economic cooperation, or religious organizations; or
(v) The petitioner has met the criterion in § 83.11(c) using evidence described in § 83.11(c)(2).
(c)
Political influence or authority.
The petitioner has maintained political influence or authority over its members as an autonomous entity from 1900 until the present. Political influence or authority means the entity uses a council, leadership, internal process, or other mechanism as a means of influencing or controlling the behavior of its members in significant respects, making decisions for the entity which substantially affect its members, and/or representing the entity in dealing with outsiders in matters of consequence. This process is to be understood flexibly in the context of the history, culture, and social organization of the entity.
(1) The petitioner may demonstrate that it meets this criterion by some combination of two or more of the following forms of evidence or by other evidence that the petitioner had political influence or authority over its members as an autonomous entity:
(i) The entity is able to mobilize significant numbers of members and significant resources from its members for entity purposes.
(ii) Many of the membership consider issues acted upon or actions taken by entity leaders or governing bodies to be of importance.
(iii) There is widespread knowledge, communication, or involvement in political processes by many of the entity's members.
(iv) The entity meets the criterion in § 83.11(b) at greater than or equal to the percentages set forth under § 83.11(b)(2).
(v) There are internal conflicts that show controversy over valued entity goals, properties, policies, processes, or decisions.
(vi) The government of a federally recognized Indian tribe has a significant relationship with the leaders or the governing body of the petitioner.
(vii) Land set aside by a State for petitioner, or collective ancestors of the petitioner, that is actively used for that time period.
(viii) There is a continuous line of entity leaders and a means of selection or acquiescence by a significant number of the entity's members.
(2) The petitioner will be considered to have provided sufficient evidence of political influence or authority at a given point in time if the evidence demonstrates any one of the following:
(i) Entity leaders or other internal mechanisms exist or existed that:
(A) Allocate entity resources such as land, residence rights, and the like on a consistent basis;
(B) Settle disputes between members or subgroups by mediation or other means on a regular basis;
(C) Exert strong influence on the behavior of individual members, such as the establishment or maintenance of norms or the enforcement of sanctions to direct or control behavior; or
(D) Organize or influence economic subsistence activities among the members, including shared or cooperative labor.
(ii) The petitioner has met the requirements in § 83.11(b)(2) at a given time.
(d)
Governing document.
The petitioner must provide:
(1) A copy of the entity's present governing document, including its membership criteria; or
(2) In the absence of a governing document, a written statement describing in full its membership criteria and current governing procedures.
(e)
Descent.
The petitioner's membership consists of individuals who descend from a historical Indian tribe (or from historical Indian tribes that combined and functioned as a single autonomous political entity).
(1) The petitioner satisfies this criterion by demonstrating that the petitioner's members descend from a tribal roll directed by Congress or prepared by the Secretary on a descendancy basis for purposes of distributing claims money, providing allotments, providing a tribal census, or other purposes, unless significant countervailing evidence establishes that the tribal roll is substantively inaccurate; or
(2) If no tribal roll was directed by Congress or prepared by the Secretary, the petitioner satisfies this criterion by demonstrating descent from a historical Indian tribe (or from historical Indian tribes that combined and functioned as a single autonomous political entity) with sufficient evidence including, but not limited to, one or a combination of the following identifying present members or ancestors of present members as being descendants of a historical Indian tribe (or of historical Indian tribes that combined and functioned as a single autonomous political entity):
(i) Federal, State, or other official records or evidence;
(ii) Church, school, or other similar enrollment records;
(iii) Records created by historians and anthropologists in historical times;
(iv) Affidavits of recognition by tribal elders, leaders, or the tribal governing body with personal knowledge; and
(v) Other records or evidence.
(f)
Unique membership.
The petitioner's membership is composed principally of persons who are not members of any federally recognized Indian tribe. However, a petitioner may be acknowledged even if its membership is composed principally of persons whose names have appeared on rolls of, or who have been otherwise associated with, a federally recognized Indian tribe, if the petitioner demonstrates that:
(1) It has functioned as a separate politically autonomous community by satisfying criteria in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section; and
(2) Its members have provided written confirmation of their membership in the petitioner.
(g)
Congressional termination.
Neither the petitioner nor its members are the subject of congressional legislation that has expressly terminated or forbidden the Federal relationship. The Department must determine whether the petitioner meets this criterion, and the petitioner is not required to submit evidence to meet it.
§ 83.12
What are the criteria for a previously federally acknowledged petitioner?
(a) The petitioner may prove it was previously acknowledged as a federally recognized Indian tribe, or is a portion that evolved out of a previously federally recognized Indian tribe, by providing substantial evidence of unambiguous Federal acknowledgment, meaning that the United States Government recognized the petitioner as an Indian tribe eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians with which the United States carried on a relationship at some prior date including, but not limited to, evidence that the petitioner had:
(1) Treaty relations with the United States;
(2) Been denominated a tribe by act of Congress or Executive Order;
(3) Been treated by the Federal Government as having collective rights in tribal lands or funds; or
(4) Land held for it or its collective ancestors by the United States.
(b) Once the petitioner establishes that it was previously acknowledged, it must demonstrate that it meets:
(1) At present, the Community Criterion; and
(2) Since the time of previous Federal acknowledgment or 1900, whichever is later, the Indian Entity Identification Criterion and Political Authority Criterion.

# Subpart C—Process for Federal Acknowledgment

# Documented Petition Submission and Review
§ 83.20
How does an entity request Federal acknowledgment?
Any entity that believes it can satisfy the criteria in this part may submit a documented petition under this part to: Department of the Interior, Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Attention: Office of Federal Acknowledgment, Mail Stop 4071 MIB, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240.
[83 FR 33826, July 18, 2018]
§ 83.21
What must a documented petition include?
(a) The documented petition may be in any readable form and must include the following:
(1) A certification, signed and dated by the petitioner's governing body, stating that it is the petitioner's official documented petition;
(2) A concise written narrative, with citations to supporting documentation, thoroughly explaining how the petitioner meets each of the criteria in § 83.11, except the Congressional Termination Criterion (§ 83.11 (g))—
(i) If the petitioner chooses to provide explanations of and supporting documentation for the Congressional Termination Criterion (§ 83.11 (g)), the Department will accept it; but
(ii) The Department will conduct the research necessary to determine whether the petitioner meets the Congressional Termination Criterion (§ 83.11 (g)).
(3) Supporting documentation cited in the written narrative and containing specific, detailed evidence that the petitioner meets each of the criteria in § 83.11;
(4) Membership lists and explanations, including:
(i) An official current membership list, separately certified by the petitioner's governing body, of all known current members of the petitioner, including each member's full name (including maiden name, if any), date of birth, and current residential address;
(ii) A statement describing the circumstances surrounding the preparation of the current membership list;
(iii) A copy of each available former list of members based on the petitioner's own defined criteria; and
(iv) A statement describing the circumstances surrounding the preparation of the former membership lists, insofar as possible.
(b) If the documented petition contains any information that is protectable under Federal law such as the Privacy Act and Freedom of Information Act, the petitioner must provide a redacted version, an unredacted version of the relevant pages, and an explanation of the legal basis for withholding such information from public release. The Department will not publicly release information that is protectable under Federal law, but may release redacted information if not protectable under Federal law.
§ 83.22
What notice will OFA provide upon receipt of a documented petition?
When OFA receives a documented petition, it will do all of the following:
(a) Within 30 days of receipt, acknowledge receipt in writing to the petitioner.
(b) Within 60 days of receipt:
(1) Publish notice of receipt of the documented petition in the
Federal Register
and publish the following on the OFA Web site:
(i) The narrative portion of the documented petition, as submitted by the petitioner (with any redactions appropriate under § 83.21(b));
(ii) The name, location, and mailing address of the petitioner and other information to identify the entity;
(iii) The date of receipt;
(iv) The opportunity for individuals and entities to submit comments and evidence supporting or opposing the petitioner's request for acknowledgment within 120 days of the date of the Web site posting; and
(v) The opportunity for individuals and entities to request to be kept informed of general actions regarding a specific petitioner.
(2) Notify, in writing, the following:
(i) The governor of the State in which the petitioner is located;
(ii) The attorney general of the State in which the petitioner is located;
(iii) The government of the county-level (or equivalent) jurisdiction in which the petitioner is located; and
(iv) Notify any recognized tribe and any petitioner that appears to have a historical or present relationship with the petitioner or that may otherwise be considered to have a potential interest in the acknowledgment determination.
(c) Publish the following additional information to the OFA Web site:
(1) Other portions of the documented petition, to the extent feasible and allowable under Federal law, except documentation and information protectable from disclosure under Federal law, as identified by Petitioner under § 83.21(b) or otherwise;
(2) Any comments or materials submitted by third parties to OFA relating to the documented petition;
(3) Any substantive letter, proposed finding, recommended decision, and final determination issued by the Department;
(4) OFA's contact list for each petitioner, including the point of contact for the petitioner; attorneys, and representatives; and
(5) Contact information for any other individuals and entities that request to be kept informed of general actions regarding the petitioner.
(d) All subsequent notices that the Department provides under this part will be provided via the most efficient means for OFA to:
(1) The governor of the State in which the petitioner is located;
(2) The attorney general of the State in which the petitioner is located;
(3) The government of the county-level (or equivalent) jurisdiction in which the petitioner is located;
(4) Any recognized tribe and any petitioner that appears to have a historical or present relationship with the petitioner or that may otherwise be considered to have a potential interest in the acknowledgment determination; and
(5) Any individuals and entities that request to be kept informed of general actions regarding a specific petitioner.

# Review of Documented Petition
§ 83.23
How will OFA determine which documented petition to consider first?
(a) OFA will begin reviews of documented petitions in the order of their receipt.
(1) At each successive review stage, there may be points at which OFA is waiting on additional information or clarification from the petitioner. Upon receipt of the additional information or clarification, OFA will return to its review of the documented petition as soon as possible.
(2) To the extent possible, OFA will give highest priority to completing reviews of documented petitions it has already begun to review.
(b) OFA will maintain a numbered register of documented petitions that have been received.
(c) OFA will maintain a numbered register of any letters of intent, which were allowable prior to July 31, 2015, or incomplete (
i.e.,
not fully documented) petitions and the original dates of their filing with the Department. If two or more documented petitions are ready for review on the same date, this register will determine the order of consideration.
§ 83.24
What opportunity will the petitioner have to respond to comments before OFA reviews the petition?
Before beginning review of a documented petition, OFA will provide the petitioner with any comments on the petition received from individuals or entities under § 83.22(b) and provide the petitioner with 90 days to respond to such comments. OFA will not begin review until it receives the petitioner's response to the comments or the petitioner requests that OFA proceed without its response.
§ 83.25
Who will OFA notify when it begins review of a documented petition?
OFA will notify the petitioner and those listed in § 83.22(d) when it begins
review of a documented petition and will provide the petitioner and those listed in § 83.22(d) with:
(a) The name, office address, and telephone number of the staff member with primary administrative responsibility for the petition;
(b) The names of the researchers conducting the evaluation of the petition; and
(c) The name of their supervisor.
§ 83.26
How will OFA review a documented petition?
(a)
Phase I.
When reviewing a documented petition, OFA will first determine if the petitioner meets the Governing Document Criterion (§ 83.11(d)), Descent Criterion (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership Criterion (§ 83.11(f)), and Termination Criterion (§ 83.11(g)), in accordance with the following steps.
(1)(i) OFA will conduct a Phase I technical assistance review and notify the petitioner by letter of any deficiencies that would prevent the petitioner from meeting the Governing Document, Descent, Unique Membership, or Termination Criteria. Upon receipt of the letter, the petitioner must submit a written response that:
(A) Withdraws the documented petition to further prepare the petition;
(B) Submits additional information and/or clarification; or
(C) Asks OFA to proceed with the review.
(ii) If the documented petition claims previous Federal acknowledgment and/or includes evidence of previous Federal acknowledgment, the Phase I technical assistance review will include a review to determine whether that evidence meets the requirements of previous Federal acknowledgment (§ 83.12).
(2) Following the receipt of the petitioner's written response to the Phase I technical assistance review, OFA will provide the petitioner with:
(i) Any comments and evidence OFA may consider that the petitioner does not already have, to the extent allowable by Federal law; and
(ii) The opportunity to respond in writing to the comments and evidence provided.
(3) OFA will publish a negative proposed finding if it issues a deficiency letter under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and the petitioner:
(i) Does not withdraw the documented petition or does not respond with information or clarification sufficient to address the deficiencies; or
(ii) Asks OFA in writing to proceed with the review.
(4) OFA will publish a positive proposed finding and proceed to Phase II if it determines that the petitioner meets the Governing Document, Descent, Unique Membership, and Termination criteria.
(b)
Phase II.
If the petitioner meets the Governing Document, Descent, Unique Membership, and Termination criteria, OFA will next review whether the petitioner meets the Indian Entity Identification Criterion (§ 83.11(a)), the Community Criterion (§ 83.11(b)), and the Political Influence/Authority Criterion (§ 83.11(c)). If the petitioner claims previous Federal acknowledgment, the Department will also review whether petitioner proves previous Federal acknowledgment and, if so, will review whether the petitioner meets the criteria under § 83.12(b).
(1) OFA will conduct a Phase II technical assistance review and notify the petitioner by letter of any deficiencies that would prevent the petitioner from meeting these criteria. Upon receipt of the letter, the petitioner must submit a written response that:
(i) Withdraws the documented petition to further prepare the petition;
(ii) Provides additional information and/or clarification; or
(iii) Asks OFA to proceed with the review.
(2) Following receipt of the petitioner's written response to the Phase II technical assistance review, OFA will provide the petitioner with:
(i) Any comments and evidence OFA may consider in preparing the proposed finding that the petitioner does not already have, to the extent allowable by Federal law; and
(ii) The opportunity to respond in writing to the comments and evidence provided.
(3) OFA will then review the record to determine:
(i) For petitioners with previous Federal acknowledgment, whether the criteria at § 83.12(b) are met; or
(ii) For petitioners without previous Federal acknowledgment, whether the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria are met.
(4) OFA will publish a negative proposed finding if it issues a deficiency letter under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the petitioner:
(i) Does not withdraw the documented petition or does not respond with information or clarification sufficient to address the deficiencies; or
(ii) Asks OFA in writing to proceed with the review.
(5) OFA will publish a positive proposed finding if it determines that the petitioner meets the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria or, for petitioners with previous Federal acknowledgment, that the petitioner meets the criteria at § 83.12(b).
§ 83.27
What are technical assistance reviews?
Technical assistance reviews are preliminary reviews for OFA to tell the petitioner where there appear to be evidentiary gaps for the criteria that will be under review in that phase and to provide the petitioner with an opportunity to supplement or revise the documented petition.
§ 83.28
When does OFA review for previous Federal acknowledgment?
(a) OFA reviews the documented petition for previous Federal acknowledgment during the Phase II technical assistance review of the documented petition.
(b) If OFA cannot verify previous Federal acknowledgment during this technical assistance review, the petitioner must provide additional evidence. If a petitioner claiming previous Federal acknowledgment does not respond or does not demonstrate the claim of previous Federal acknowledgment, OFA will consider its documented petition on the same basis as documented petitions submitted by petitioners not claiming previous Federal acknowledgment.
§ 83.29
What will OFA consider in its reviews?
(a) In any review, OFA will consider the documented petition and evidence submitted by the petitioner, any comments and evidence on the petition received during the comment period, and petitioners' responses to comments and evidence received during the response period.
(b) OFA may also:
(1) Initiate and consider other research for any purpose relative to analyzing the documented petition and obtaining additional information about the petitioner's status; and
(2) Request and consider timely submitted additional explanations and information from commenting parties to support or supplement their comments on the proposed finding and from the petitioner to support or supplement their responses to comments.
(c) OFA must provide the petitioner with the additional material obtained in paragraph (b) of this section, and provide the petitioner with the opportunity to respond to the additional material. The additional material and any response by the petitioner will become part of the record.
§ 83.30
Can a petitioner withdraw its documented petition?
A petitioner can withdraw its documented petition at any point in the process but the petition will be placed at the end of the numbered register of documented petitions upon re-submission and may not regain its initial priority number.
§ 83.31
Can OFA suspend review of a documented petition?
(a) OFA can suspend review of a documented petition, either conditionally or for a stated period, upon:
(1) A showing to the petitioner that there are technical or administrative problems that temporarily preclude continuing review; and
(2) Approval by the Assistant Secretary.
(b) Upon resolution of the technical or administrative problems that led to the suspension, the documented petition will have the same priority on the numbered register of documented petitions to the extent possible.
(1) OFA will notify the petitioner and those listed in § 83.22(d) when it suspends and when it resumes review of the documented petition.
(2) Upon the resumption of review, OFA will have the full six months to issue a proposed finding.

# Proposed Finding
§ 83.32
When will OFA issue a proposed finding?
(a) OFA will issue a proposed finding as shown in the following table:
OFA must
within . . .
(1) Complete its review under Phase I and either issue a negative proposed finding and publish a notice of availability in the
Federal Register,
or proceed to review under Phase II
six months after notifying the petitioner under § 83.25 that OFA has begun review of the petition.
(2) Complete its review under Phase II and issue a proposed finding and publish a notice of availability in the
Federal Register
six months after the deadline in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) The times set out in paragraph (a) of this section will be suspended any time the Department is waiting for a response or additional information from the petitioner.
(c) OFA will strive to limit the proposed finding and any reports to no more than 100 pages, cumulatively, excluding source documents.
§ 83.33
What will the proposed finding include?
The proposed finding will summarize the evidence, reasoning, and analyses that are the basis for OFA's proposed finding regarding whether the petitioner meets the applicable criteria.
(a) A Phase I negative proposed finding will address that the petitioner fails to meet any one or more of the following criteria: Governing Document (§ 83.11(d)), Descent (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership (§ 83.11(f)), or Congressional Termination (§ 83.11(g)).
(b) A Phase II proposed finding will address whether the petitioner meets the following criteria: Indian Entity Existence (§ 83.11(a)), Community (§ 83.11(b)), and Political Influence/Authority (§ 83.11(c)).
§ 83.34
What notice of the proposed finding will OFA provide?
In addition to publishing notice of the proposed finding in the
Federal Register,
OFA will:
(a) Provide copies of the proposed finding and any supporting reports to the petitioner and those listed in § 83.22(d); and
(b) Publish the proposed finding and reports on the OFA Web site.

# Proposed Finding—Comment and Response Periods, Hearing
§ 83.35
What opportunity to comment will there be after OFA issues the proposed finding?
(a) Publication of notice of the proposed finding will be followed by a 120-day comment period. During this comment period, the petitioner or any individual or entity may submit the following to OFA to rebut or support the proposed finding:
(1) Comments, with citations to and explanations of supporting evidence; and
(2) Evidence cited and explained in the comments.
(b) Any individual or entity that submits comments and evidence must provide the petitioner with a copy of their submission.
§ 83.36
What procedure follows the end of the comment period on a favorable proposed finding?
(a) At the end of the comment period for a favorable proposed finding, AS-IA will automatically issue a final determination acknowledging the petitioner as a federally recognized Indian tribe if OFA does not receive a timely objection with evidence challenging the proposed finding that the petitioner meets the acknowledgment criteria.
(b) If OFA has received a timely objection and evidence challenging the favorable proposed finding, then the petitioner will have 60 days to submit a written response, with citations to and explanations of supporting evidence, and the supporting evidence cited and explained in the response. The Department will not consider additional comments or evidence on the proposed finding submitted by individuals or entities during this response period.
§ 83.37
What procedure follows the end of the comment period on a negative proposed finding?
If OFA has received comments on the negative proposed finding, then the petitioner will have 60 days to submit a written response, with citations to and explanations of supporting evidence, and the supporting evidence cited and explained in the response. The Department will not consider additional comments or evidence on the proposed finding submitted by individuals or entities during this response period.
§ 83.38
What options does the petitioner have at the end of the response period on a negative proposed finding?
(a) At the end of the response period for a negative proposed finding, the petitioner will have 60 days to elect to challenge the proposed finding before an ALJ by sending to the Departmental Cases Hearings Division, Office of Hearings and Appeals, with a copy to OFA a written election of hearing that lists:
(1) Grounds for challenging the proposed finding, including issues of law and issues of material fact; and
(2) The witnesses and exhibits the petitioner intends to present at the hearing, other than solely for impeachment purposes, including:
(i) For each witness listed, his or her name, address, telephone number, and qualifications and a brief narrative summary of his or her expected testimony; and
(ii) For each exhibit listed, a statement confirming that the exhibit is in the administrative record reviewed by OFA or is a previous final determination of a petitioner issued by the Department.
(b) The Department will not consider additional comments or evidence on the proposed finding submitted by individuals or entities during this period.
§ 83.39
What is the procedure if the petitioner elects to have a hearing before an ALJ?
(a) If the petitioner elects a hearing to challenge the proposed finding before an ALJ, OFA will provide to the Departmental Cases Hearings Division, Office of Hearings and Appeals, copies of the negative proposed finding, critical documents from the administrative record that are central to the portions of the negative proposed finding at issue, and any comments and evidence and responses sent in response to the proposed finding.
(1) Within 5 business days after receipt of the petitioner's hearing election, OFA will send notice of the election to each of those listed in § 83.22(d) and the Departmental Cases Hearings Division by express mail or courier service for delivery on the next business day.
(2) OFA will retain custody of the entire, original administrative record.
(b)
Hearing process.
The assigned ALJ will conduct the hearing process in accordance with 43 CFR part 4, subpart K.
(c)
Hearing record.
The hearing will be on the record before an ALJ. The hearing record will become part of the record considered by AS-IA in reaching a final determination.
(d)
Recommended decision.
The ALJ will issue a recommended decision and forward it along with the hearing record to the AS-IA in accordance with the timeline and procedures in 43 CFR part 4, subpart K.

# AS-IA Evaluation and Preparation of Final Determination
§ 83.40
When will the Assistant Secretary begin review?
(a) AS-IA will begin his/her review in accordance with the following table:
If the PF was:
And:
AS-IA will begin review upon:
(1) Negative
The petitioner did not elect a hearing
Expiration of the period for the petitioner to elect a hearing.
(2) Negative
The petitioner elected a hearing
Receipt of the ALJ's recommended decision.
(3) Positive
No objections with evidence were received
Expiration of the comment period for the positive PF.
(4) Positive
Objections with evidence were received
Expiration of the period for the petitioner to respond to comments on the positive PF.
(b) AS-IA will notify the petitioner and those listed in § 83.22(d) of the date he/she begins consideration.
§ 83.41
What will the Assistant Secretary consider in his/her review?
(a) AS-IA will consider all the evidence in the administrative record, including any comments and responses on the proposed finding and any the hearing transcript and recommended decision.
(b) AS-IA will not consider comments submitted after the close of the comment period in § 83.35, the response period in § 83.36 or § 83.37, or the hearing election period in § 83.38.
§ 83.42
When will the Assistant Secretary issue a final determination?
(a) AS-IA will issue a final determination and publish a notice of availability in the
Federal Register
within 90 days from the date on which he/she begins its review. AS-IA will also
(1) Provide copies of the final determination to the petitioner and those listed in § 83.22(d); and
(2) Make copies of the final determination available to others upon written request.
(b) AS-IA will strive to limit the final determination and any reports to no more than 100 pages, cumulatively, excluding source documents.
§ 83.43
How will the Assistant Secretary make the determination decision?
(a) AS-IA will issue a final determination granting acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe when AS-IA finds that the petitioner meets the Governing Document (§ 83.11(d)), Descent (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership (§ 83.11(f)), and Congressional Termination (§ 83.11(g)) Criteria and:
(1) Demonstrates previous Federal acknowledgment under § 83.12(a) and meets the criteria in § 83.12(b); or
(2) Meets the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria.
(b) AS-IA will issue a final determination declining acknowledgement as a federally recognized Indian tribe when he/she finds that the petitioner:
(1) In Phase I, does not meet the Governing Document (§ 83.11(d)), Descent (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership (§ 83.11(f)), or Congressional Termination (§ 83.11(g)) Criteria: or
(2) In Phase II, does not:
(i) Demonstrate previous Federal acknowledgment under § 83.12(a) and meet the criteria in § 83.12(b); or
(ii) Meet the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria.
§ 83.44
Is the Assistant Secretary's final determination final for the Department?
Yes. The AS-IA's final determination is final for the Department and is a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 704).
§ 83.45
When will the final determination be effective?
The final determination will become immediately effective. Within 10 business days of the decision, the Assistant Secretary will submit to the
Federal Register
a notice of the final determination to be published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 83.46
How is a petitioner with a positive final determination integrated into Federal programs as a federally recognized Indian tribe?
(a) Upon acknowledgment, the petitioner will be a federally recognized Indian tribe entitled to the privileges and immunities available to federally recognized Indian tribes. It will be included on the list of federally recognized Indian tribes in the next scheduled publication.
(b) Within six months after acknowledgment, the appropriate Bureau of Indian Affairs Regional Office will consult with the newly federally recognized Indian tribe and develop, in cooperation with the federally recognized Indian tribe, a determination of needs and a recommended budget. These will be forwarded to the Assistant Secretary. The recommended budget will then be considered with other recommendations by the Assistant Secretary in the usual budget request process.
(c) While the newly federally acknowledged Indian tribe is eligible for
benefits and services available to federally recognized Indian tribes, acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe does not create immediate access to existing programs. The newly federally acknowledged Indian tribe may participate in existing programs after it meets the specific program requirements, if any, and upon appropriation of funds by Congress. Requests for appropriations will follow a determination of the needs of the newly federally acknowledged Indian tribe.

# Subpart D—Re-Petition Authorization Process

# Source:
90 FR 3643, Jan. 15, 2025, unless otherwise noted.
§ 83.47
Who can seek authorization to re-petition under this subpart?
(a) The re-petition authorization process is available to unsuccessful petitioners denied Federal acknowledgment, subject to the exceptions in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Any petitioner that, as of February 14, 2025, has not yet received a final agency decision and is proceeding under the acknowledgment regulations as published in this part, effective March 28, 1994, may remain under those regulations and, if denied under those regulations, may seek authorization to re-petition under this subpart. These petitioners may also choose by April 15, 2025, to proceed instead under the acknowledgment regulations, as published in this part 83, effective July 31, 2015, and to supplement their petitions, and, if the petition is denied, may seek authorization to re-petition under this subpart. Petitioners choosing to proceed under the regulations as published in this part 83, effective July 31, 2015 must notify OFA of their choice in writing by April 15, 2025, in any legible electronic or hardcopy form.
(c) The re-petition authorization process is not available to the following:
(1) Unsuccessful petitioners that submit a re-petition request pursuant to this process, are granted authorization to re-petition, and are denied Federal acknowledgment a second time;
(2) Unsuccessful petitioners that submit a re-petition request pursuant to this process and are denied authorization to re-petition.
§ 83.48
When will the Department allow a re-petition?
An unsuccessful petitioner may re-petition only if AS-IA determines that the petitioner has plausibly alleged one or both of the following:
(a) A change from part 54 of this chapter (as it existed before March 30, 1982) or part 83 (as it existed before July 31, 2015) to this part 83 would, if applied on reconsideration, change the outcome of the previous, negative final determination to positive; and/or
(b) New evidence (
i.e.,
evidence not previously submitted by the petitioner) would, if considered on reconsideration, change the outcome of the previous, negative final determination to positive.
§ 83.49
How long does an unsuccessful petitioner have to submit a request for authorization to re-petition?
(a) An unsuccessful petitioner denied Federal acknowledgment prior to February 14, 2025, may request authorization to re-petition by submitting a complete request under § 83.50 no later than February 14, 2030.
(b) An unsuccessful petitioner denied Federal acknowledgment after February 14, 2025, may request authorization to re-petition by submitting a complete request under § 83.50 no later than five years after issuance of the negative final determination. However, if the petitioner pursues judicial review of the negative final determination:
(1) The five-year period will be tolled during any period of judicial review, from the date of filed litigation to the date of entry of judgment and expiration of appeal rights for said litigation; and
(2) Upon expiration of the appeal rights, OFA will notify the petitioner and those listed in § 83.51(b)(2) of the resumption of the five-year time limit and the date by which the petitioner must submit a request for re-petitioning.
§ 83.50
How does an unsuccessful petitioner request authorization to re-petition?
(a) To initiate the re-petition authorization process, the petitioner must submit to OFA, in any legible electronic or hardcopy form, a re-petition request that includes the following:
(1) A certification, signed and dated by the petitioner's governing body, stating that the submission is the petitioner's official request for authorization to re-petition;
(2) A concise written narrative, with citations to supporting documentation, thoroughly explaining how the petitioner meets the conditions of §§ 83.47 through 83.49; and
(3) Supporting documentation cited in the written narrative and containing specific, detailed evidence that the petitioner meets the conditions of §§ 83.47 through 83.49.
(b) If the re-petition request contains any information that is protectable under Federal law such as the Privacy Act and Freedom of Information Act, the petitioner must provide a redacted version, an unredacted version of the relevant pages, and an explanation of the legal basis for withholding such information from public release. The Department will not publicly release information that is protectable under Federal law, but may release redacted information if not protectable under Federal law.
§ 83.51
What notice will OFA provide upon receipt of a request for authorization to re-petition?
When OFA receives a re-petition request that satisfies § 83.50, it will do all of the following:
(a) Within 30 days of receipt, acknowledge receipt in writing to the petitioner.
(b) Within 60 days of receipt:
(1) Publish notice of receipt of the re-petition request in the
Federal Register
and publish the following on the OFA website:
(i) The narrative portion of the re-petition request, as submitted by the petitioner (with any redactions appropriate under § 83.50(b));
(ii) Other portions of the re-petition request, to the extent feasible and allowable under Federal law, except documentation and information protectable from disclosure under Federal law, as identified by the petitioner under § 83.50(b) or by the Department;
(iii) The name, location, and mailing address of the petitioner and other information to identify the entity;
(iv) The date of receipt;
(v) The opportunity for individuals and entities to submit comments and evidence supporting or opposing the petitioner's request for re-petitioning within 120 days of publication of notice of the request; and
(vi) The opportunity for individuals and entities to request to be kept informed of general actions regarding a specific petitioner.
(2) Notify, in writing, the parties entitled to notification of a documented petition under § 83.22(d) and any third parties that participated in an administrative reconsideration or Federal Court appeal concerning the petitioner.
§ 83.52
What opportunity to comment will there be before the Assistant Secretary reviews the re-petition request?
(a) Publication of notice of the request will be followed by a 120-day comment period. During this comment period, any individual or entity may submit the following to OFA to rebut or support the request:
(1) Comments, with citations to and explanations of supporting evidence; and
(2) Evidence cited and explained in the comments.
(b) Any individual or entity that submits comments and evidence to OFA must provide the petitioner with a copy of their submission.
(c) If OFA has received a timely objection and evidence challenging the request, then the petitioner will have 60 days to submit a written response, with citations to and explanations of supporting evidence, and the supporting evidence cited and explained in the response. The Department will not consider additional comments or evidence on the request submitted by individuals or entities during this response period.
(d) After the close of the comment-and-response period, the Department will consider the re-petition request ready for active consideration, and
within 30 days of the close of the comment-and-response period, OFA will place the request on the register that OFA maintains under § 83.53(a).
§ 83.53
How will the Assistant Secretary determine which re-petition request to consider first?
(a) OFA shall maintain and make available on its website a register of re-petition requests that are ready for active consideration.
(b) The order of consideration of re-petition requests shall be determined by the date on which OFA places each request on OFA's register of requests ready for active consideration.
(c) The Department will prioritize review of documented petitions over review of re-petition requests, except that re-petition requests pending on OFA's register for more than two years shall have priority over any subsequently filed documented petitions.
§ 83.54
Who will OFA notify when the Assistant Secretary begins review of a re-petition request?
OFA will notify the petitioner and those listed in § 83.51(b)(2) when AS-IA begins review of a re-petition request and will provide the petitioner and those listed in § 83.51(b)(2) with the name, office address, and telephone number of the staff member with primary administrative responsibility for the request.
§ 83.55
What will the Assistant Secretary consider in his/her review?
(a) In any review, AS-IA will consider the re-petition request and evidence submitted by the petitioner, any comments and evidence on the request received during the comment period, and petitioners' responses to comments and evidence received during the response period.
(b) AS-IA may also:
(1) Initiate and consider other research for any purpose relative to analyzing the re-petition request; and
(2) Request and consider timely submitted additional explanations and information from commenting parties to support or supplement their comments on the re-petition request and from the petitioner to support or supplement their responses to comments.
(c) OFA will provide the petitioner with the additional material obtained in paragraph (b) of this section, and provide the petitioner with a 60-day opportunity to respond to the additional material. The additional material and any response by the petitioner will become part of the record.
§ 83.56
Can a petitioner withdraw its re-petition request?
A petitioner can withdraw its re-petition request at any point in the process and re-submit the request at a later date within the five-year time limit applicable to the petitioner under § 83.49. Upon re-submission, the re-petition request will lose its original place in line and be considered after other re-petition requests awaiting review.
§ 83.57
When will the Assistant Secretary issue a decision on a re-petition request?
(a) AS-IA will issue a decision within 180 days after OFA notifies the petitioner under § 83.54 that AS-IA has begun review of the request.
(b) The time set out in paragraph (a) of this section will be suspended any time the Department is waiting for a response or additional information from the petitioner.
§ 83.58
Can AS-IA suspend review of a re-petition request?
(a) AS-IA can suspend review of a re-petition request, either conditionally or for a stated period, if there are technical or administrative problems that temporarily preclude continuing review.
(b) Upon resolution of the technical or administrative problems that led to the suspension, the re-petition request will have the same priority for review to the extent possible.
(1) OFA will notify the petitioner and those listed in § 83.51(b)(2) when AS-IA suspends and when AS-IA resumes review of the re-petition request.
(2) Upon the resumption of review, AS-IA will have the full 180 days to issue a decision on the request.
§ 83.59
How will the Assistant Secretary make the decision on a re-petition request?
(a) AS-IA's decision will summarize the evidence, reasoning, and analyses that are the basis for the decision regarding whether the petitioner meets the conditions of §§ 83.47 through 83.49.
(b) If AS-IA finds that the petitioner meets the conditions of §§ 83.47 through 83.49, AS-IA will issue a grant of authorization to re-petition.
(c) If AS-IA finds that the petitioner has not met the conditions of §§ 83.47 through 83.49, AS-IA will issue a denial of authorization to re-petition.
§ 83.60
What notice of the Assistant Secretary's decision will OFA provide?
In addition to publishing notice of AS-IA's decision in the
Federal Register,
OFA will:
(a) Provide copies of the decision to the petitioner and those listed in § 83.51(b)(2); and
(b) Publish the decision on the OFA website.
§ 83.61
When will the Assistant Secretary's decision become effective, and can it be appealed?
AS-IA's decision under § 83.59 will become effective immediately and is not subject to administrative appeal.
(a) A grant of authorization to re-petition is not a final determination granting or denying acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe. Instead, it allows the petitioner to proceed through the Federal acknowledgment process by submitting a new documented petition for consideration under subpart C of this part, notwithstanding the Department's previous, negative final determination. A grant of authorization to re-petition is not subject to appeal.
(b) A denial of authorization to re-petition is final for the Department and is a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 704).
§ 83.62
What happens if some portion of this subpart is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction?
If any portion of this subpart is determined to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the other portions of the subpart remain in effect. For example, if one of the conditions on re-petitioning set forth at §§ 83.47 through 83.49 is held to be invalid, it is the Department's intent that the other conditions remain valid.
Pt. 84

# PART 84—ENCUMBRANCES OF TRIBAL LAND—CONTRACT APPROVALS
Sec.
84.001
What is the purpose of this part?
84.002
What terms must I know?
84.003
What types of contracts and agreements require Secretarial approval under this part?
84.004
Are there types of contracts and agreements that do not require Secretarial approval under this part?
84.005
Will the Secretary approve contracts or agreements even where such approval is not required under this part?
84.006
Under what circumstances will the Secretary disapprove a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part?
84.007
What is the status of a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part but has not yet been approved?
84.008
What is the effect of the Secretary's disapproval of a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 81, Pub. L. 106-179.

# Source:
66 FR 38923, July 26, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 84.001
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of the Indian Tribal Economic Development and Contract Encouragement Act of 2000, Public Law 106-179, which amends section 2103 of the Revised Statutes, found at 25 U.S.C. 81.
§ 84.002
What terms must I know?
The
Act
means the Indian Tribal Economic Development and Contract Encouragement Act of 2000, Public Law 106-179, which amends section 2103 of
the Revised Statutes, found at 25 U.S.C. 81.
Encumber
means to attach a claim, lien, charge, right of entry or liability to real property (referred to generally as encumbrances). Encumbrances covered by this part may include leasehold mortgages, easements, and other contracts or agreements that by their terms could give to a third party exclusive or nearly exclusive proprietary control over tribal land.
Indian tribe,
as defined by the Act, means any Indian tribe, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her designated representative.
Tribal lands
means those lands held by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe or those lands owned by an Indian tribe subject to federal restrictions against alienation, as referred to Public Law 106-179 as “Indian lands.”
§ 84.003
What types of contracts and agreements require Secretarial approval under this part?
Unless otherwise provided in this part, contracts and agreements entered into by an Indian tribe that encumber trial lands for a period of seven or more years require Secretarial approval under this part.
§ 84.004
Are there types of contracts and agreements that do not require Secretarial approval under this part?
Yes, the following types of contracts or agreements do not require Secretarial approval under this part:
(a) Contracts or agreements otherwise reviewed and approved by the Secretary under this title or other federal law or regulation. See, for example, 25 CFR parts 152 (patents in fee, certificates or competency); 162 (non-mineral leases, leasehold mortgages); 163 (timber contracts); 166 (grazing permits); 169 (rights-of-way); 200 (coal leases); 211 (mineral leases); 216 (surface mining permits and leases); and 225 (mineral development agreements);
(b) Leases of tribal land that are exempt from approval by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 415 or 25 U.S.C. 477;
(c) Sublease and assignments of leases of tribal land that do not require approval by the Secretary under part 162 of this title;
(d) Contracts or agreements that convey to tribal members any rights for temporary use of tribal lands, assigned by Indian tribes in accordance with tribal laws or custom;
(e) Contracts or agreements that do not convey exclusive or nearly exclusive proprietary control over tribal lands for a period of seven years or more;
(f) Contracts or agreements that are exempt from Secretarial approval under the terms of a corporate charter authorized by 25 U.S.C. 477;
(g) Tribal attorney contracts, including those for the Five Civilized Tribes that are subject to our approval under 25 U.S.C. 82a;
(h) Contracts or agreements entered into in connection with a contract under the Indian Self-Determination Act, 25 U.S.C. 450f, or a compact under the Tribal Self-Governance Act, 25 U.S.C. 458aa.
(i) Contracts or agreements that are subject to approval by the National Indian Gaming Commission under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, 25 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.,
and the Commission's regulations; or
(j) Contracts or agreements relating to the use of tribal lands for hydropower projects where the tribal lands meet the definition of a “reservation” under the Federal Power Act (FPA), provided that:
(1) Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has issued a license or an exemption;
(2) FERC has made the finding under section 4(e) of the FPA (16 U.S.C. 797(e)) that the license or exemption will not interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired; and
(3) FERC license or exemption includes the Secretary's conditions for protection and utilization of the reservation under section 4(e) and payment of annual use charges to the tribe
under section 10(e) of the FPA (16 U.S.C. 803(e)).
§ 84.005
Will the Secretary approve contracts or agreements even where such approval is not required under this part?
No, the Secretary will not approve contracts or agreements that do not encumber tribal lands for a period of seven or more years. Within thirty days after receipt of final, executed documents, the Secretary will return such contracts and agreements with a statement explaining why Secretarial approval is not required. The provisions of the Act will not apply to those contracts or agreements the Secretary determines are not covered by the Act.
§ 84.006
Under what circumstances will the Secretary disapprove a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part?
(a) The Secretary will disapprove a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part if the Secretary determines that such contract or agreement:
(1) Violates federal law; or
(2) Does not contain at least one of the following provisions that:
(i) Provides for remedies in the event the contract or agreement is breached;
(ii) References a tribal code, ordinance or ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction that discloses the right of the tribe to assert sovereign immunity as a defense in an action brought against the tribe; or
(iii) Includes an express waiver of the right of the tribe to assert sovereign immunity as a defense in any action brought against the tribe, including a waiver that limits the nature of relief that may be provided or the jurisdiction of a court with respect to such an action.
(b) The Secretary will consult with the Indian tribe as soon as practicable before disapproving a contract or agreement regarding the elements of the contract or agreement that may lead to disapproval.
§ 84.007
What is the status of a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part but has not yet been approved?
A contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part is not valid until the Secretary approves it.
§ 84.008
What is the effect of the Secretary's disapproval of a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part?
If the Secretary disapproves a contract or agreement that requires Secretarial approval under this part, the contract or agreement is invalid as a matter of law.
Pt. 87

# PART 87—USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF INDIAN JUDGMENT FUNDS
Sec.
87.1
Definitions.
87.2
Purpose.
87.3
Time limits.
87.4
Conduct of hearings of record.
87.5
Submittal of proposed plan by Secretary.
87.6
Extension of period for submitting plans.
87.7
Submittal of proposed legislation by Secretary.
87.8
Enrollment aspects of plans.
87.9
Programing aspects of plans.
87.10
Per capita payment aspects of plans and protection of funds accruing to minors, legal incompetents and deceased beneficiaries.
87.11
Investment of judgment funds.
87.12
Insuring the proper performance of approved plans.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 87 Stat. 466, 467, 468.

# Source:
39 FR 1835, Jan. 15, 1974, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 87.1
Definitions.
As used in this part 87, terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
(a)
Act
means the Act of October 19, 1973 (Pub. L. 93-134; 87 Stat. 466, 467, 468).
(b)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
(c)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or his authorized representative.
(d)
Area Director
means the Area Director or his equivalent of any one of the Area Offices of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or his authorized representative.
(e)
Superintendent
means the Superintendent or Officer in Charge of any one of the Agency Offices or other local offices of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or his authorized representative.
(f)
Congressional Committees
means the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States.
(g)
Indian tribe or group
means any Indian tribe, nation, band, pueblo, community or identifiable group of Indians, or Alaska Native entity.
(h)
Tribal governing body
means, as recognized by the Secretary, the governing body of a formally organized or recognized tribe or group; the governing body of any informally organized tribe or group, the governing body of a formally organized Alaska Native entity or recognized tribe in Oklahoma, and for the purposes of the Act the recognized spokesmen or representatives of any descendant group.
(i)
Plan
means the document submitted by the Secretary, together with all pertinent records, for the use or distribution of judgment funds, to the Congressional Committees.
(j)
Enrollment
means that aspect of a plan which pertains to making or bringing current a roll of members of an organized, reservation-based tribe with membership criteria approved or accepted by the Secretary, a roll of members of an organized or recognized entity in Oklahoma, or Alaska or elsewhere, or a roll prepared for the purpose of making per capita payments for judgments awarded by the Indian Claims Commission or United States Court of Claims; or which pertains to using an historical roll or records of names, including tribal rolls closed and made final, for research or other purposes.
(k)
Program
means that aspect of a plan which pertains to using part or all of the judgment funds for tribal social and economic development projects.
(l)
Per capita payment
means that aspect of a plan which pertains to the individualization of the judgment funds in the form of shares to tribal members or to individual descendants.
(m)
Use or distribution
means any utilization or disposition of the judgment funds, including programming, per capita payments, or a combination thereof.
(n)
Individual beneficiary
means a tribal member or any individual descendant, found by the Secretary to be eligible to participate in a plan, who was born on or prior to, and is living on, the approval date of the plan.
(o)
Approval date
means the date that a plan is approved by the Congress. Except for a plan disapproved by either House, the approval date of a plan shall be the sixtieth (60) day after formal submittal of a plan by the Secretary to the Congressional Committees, excluding days on which either the House of Representatives or the Senate is not in session because of an adjournment of more than three (3) calendar days to a day certain. In the event a proposed plan is disapproved by either House, or in the event the Secretary is unable to submit a plan and therefore proposes legislation, the approval date shall be the date of the enabling legislation for the disposition of the judgment funds.
(p)
Minor
is an individual beneficiary who is eligible to participate in a per capita payment and who has not reached the age of eighteen (18) years.
(q)
Legal incompetent
is an individual beneficiary eligible to participate in a per capita payment and who has been declared to be under a legal disability, other than being a minor, by a court of competent jurisdiction, including tribal courts.
(r)
Attorney fees and litigation expenses
means all fees and expenses incurred in litigating and processing tribal claims before the Indian Claims Commission or the United States Court of Claims.
§ 87.2
Purpose.
The regulations in this part govern the preparation of proposed plans for the use or distribution, pursuant to the Act, of all judgment funds awarded from the date of the Act to Indian tribes and groups by the Indian Claims Commission or the United States Court of Claims, excepting any tribe or group whose trust relationship with the Federal Government has been terminated
and for which there exists legislation authorizing the disposition of its judgment funds; and of all funds deriving from judgments entered prior to the date of the Act for which there has been no enabling legislation.
§ 87.3
Time limits.
(a) The Secretary shall cause to begin as early as possible the necessary research to determine the identity of the ultimate or present day beneficiaries of judgments. Such research shall be done under the direction of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. The affected tribes or groups shall be encouraged to submit pertinent data. All pertinent data, including cultural, political and historical material, and records, including membership, census and other rolls shall be considered. If more than one entity is determined to be eligible to participate in the use or distribution of the funds, the results of the research shall include a proposed formula for the division or apportionment of the judgment funds among or between the involved entities.
(b) The results of all research shall be provided to the governing bodies of all affected tribes and groups. The Area Director shall assist the affected tribe or group in arranging for preliminary sessions or meetings of the tribal governing body, or public meetings. The Area Director shall make a presentation of the results of the research and shall arrange for expertise of the Bureau of Indian Affairs to be available at these meetings to assist the tribe or group in developing a use or distribution proposal, bearing in mind that under the Act not less than twenty (20) per centum of the judgment funds, including investment income thereon, is to be used for tribal programs unless the Secretary determines that the particular circumstances of the affected Indian tribe clearly warrant otherwise.
§ 87.4
Conduct of hearings of record.
(a) As soon as appropriate after the tribal meetings have been held and the Commissioner has reviewed the tribal proposal(s), the Area Director, or such other official of the Department of the Interior as he shall designate to act for him, shall hold a hearing of record to receive testimony on the tribal proposal(s).
(b) The hearing shall be held after appropriate public notice beginning at least twenty (20) days prior to the date of such hearing, and after consultation with the governing body of the tribe or group regarding the date and location of the hearing, to obtain the testimony of members of the governing body and other representatives, spokesmen or members of the tribe or group on the proposal(s).
(c) All testimony at the hearing shall be transcribed and a transcript thereof shall be furnished to the Commissioner and the tribal governing body immediately subsequent to the hearing. Particular care shall be taken to insure that minority views are given full opportunity for expression either during the hearing or in the form of written communications by the date of the hearing.
(d) Whenever two or more tribes or groups are involved in the use or distribution of the judgment funds, including situations in which two or more Area Offices are concerned, every effort shall be made by the Area Director or Directors to arrange for a single hearing to be conducted at a time and location as convenient to the involved tribes and groups as possible. Should the tribes and groups not reach agreement on such time or place, or on the number of entities to be represented at the hearing, the Commissioner, after considering the views of the affected tribes and groups, shall within twenty (20) days of receipt of such advice by the Area Director, designate a location and date for such hearing and invite the participation of all entities he considers to be involved and the Commissioner's decision shall be final.
§ 87.5
Submittal of proposed plan by Secretary.
Subsequent to the hearing of record, the Commissioner shall prepare all pertinent materials for the review of the Secretary. Pertinent materials shall include:
(a) The tribal use or distribution proposal or any alternate proposals;
(b) A copy of the transcript of the hearing of record;
(c) A statement on the hearing of record and other evidence reflecting the extent to which such proposal(s) meets the desires of the affected tribe or group, including minorities views;
(d) Copies of all pertinent resolutions and other communications or documents received from the affected tribe or group, including minorities;
(e) A copy of the tribal constitution and bylaws, or other organizational document, if any; a copy of the tribal enrollment ordinance, if any; and a statement as to the availability or status of the membership roll of the affected tribe or group;
(f) A statement reflecting the nature and results of the investment of the judgment funds as of thirty (30) days of the submittal of the proposed plan, including a statement concerning attorney fees and litigation expenses;
(g) A statement justifying any compromise proposal developed by the Commissioner in the event of the absence of agreement among any and all entities on the division or apportionment of the funds, should two or more entities be involved;
(h) And a statement regarding the feasibility of the proposed plan, including a timetable prepared in cooperation with the tribal governing body, for the implementation of programming and roll preparation.
Within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the appropriation of the judgment funds the Secretary shall submit a proposed plan, together with the pertinent materials described above, simultaneously to each of the Chairmen of the Congressional Committees, at the same time sending copies of the proposed plan and materials to the governing body of the affected tribe or group. The one hundred and eighty (180) day period shall begin on the date of the Act with respect to all judgments for which funds have been appropriated and for which enabling legislation has not been enacted.
§ 87.6
Extension of period for submitting plans.
An extension of the one hundred and eighty (180) day period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, may be requested by the Secretary or by the governing body of any affected tribe or group submitting such request to both Congressional Committees through the Secretary, and any such request shall be subject to the approval of both Congressional Committees.
§ 87.7
Submittal of proposed legislation by Secretary.
(a) Within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of a resolution by either House disapproving a plan, the Secretary shall simultaneously submit proposed legislation authorizing the use or distribution of the funds, together with a report thereon, to the Chairmen of both Congressional Committees, at the same time sending copies of the proposed legislation to the governing body of the affected tribe or group. Such proposed legislation shall be developed on the basis of further consultation with the affected tribe or group.
(b) In any instance in which the Secretary determines that circumstances are not conducive to the preparation and submission of a plan, he shall, after appropriate consultation with the affected tribe or group, submit proposed legislation within the 180-day period to both Congressional Committee simultaneously.
§ 87.8
Enrollment aspects of plans.
An approved plan that includes provisions for enrollment requiring formal adoption of enrollment rules and regulations shall be implemented through the publication of such rules and regulations in the
Federal Register.
Persons not members of organized or recognized tribes and who are not citizens of the United States shall not, unless otherwise provided by Congress, be eligible to participate in the use or distribution of judgment funds, excepting heirs or legatees of deceased individual beneficiaries.
§ 87.9
Programming aspects of plans.
In assessing any tribal programming proposal the Secretary shall consider all pertinent factors, including the following: the percentage of tribal members residing on or near the subject reservation, including former reservation areas in Oklahoma, or Alaska Native villages; the formal educational level
and the general level of social and economic adjustment of such reservation residents; the nature of recent programming affecting the subject tribe or group and particularly the reservation residents; the needs and aspirations of any local Indian communities or districts within the reservation and the nature of organization of such local entities; the feasibility of the participation of tribal members not in residence on the reservation; the availability of funds for programming purposes derived from sources other than the subject judgment; and all other pertinent social and economic data developed to support any proposed program.
§ 87.10
Per capita payment aspects of plans and protection of funds accruing to minors, legal incompetents and deceased beneficiaries.
(a) The per capita shares of living competent adults shall be paid directly to them. The shares of minors, legal incompetents and deceased individual beneficiaries, enhanced by investment earnings, shall be held in individual Indian money (IIM) accounts unless otherwise provided as set out in this section. While held in IIM accounts, said shares shall be invested pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 162a and shall be the property of the minors or legal incompetents or the estates of the deceased individual beneficiaries to whom the per capita payments were made.
(b)(1) Unless otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, minors' per capita shares, until the minors attain the age of 18 years, shall be retained in individually segregated IIM accounts and handled as provided in § 115.4 of this chapter. Should it be determined that the funds are to be invested pursuant to a trust, minors who will have reached the age of 18 years within six months after the establishment of the trust shall have their funds retained at interest in IIM accounts and paid to them upon attaining their majority.
(2) A private trust for the minors' per capita shares may be established subject to the approval of the tribal governing body and the Secretary on the following conditions:
(i) The tribal governing body specifically requests the establishment of such trust, and the trust provides for segregated amounts to each individual minor, based on his per capita share, and
(ii) The trust agreement specifically provides that the investment policy to be followed is that of preserving the trust corpus and of obtaining the highest interest rates current money markets can safely provide. The trust agreement must further provide that maturity dates of investments cannot exceed the period of the trust and that only the following types of investment shall be made: United States Treasury obligations; Federal agency obligations; repurchase/resell agreements; United States Treasury bills; Bankers' acceptance, provided the assets of the issuing bank exceed $1 billion or the issuing bank pledges full collateral; Certificates of deposit, provided the assets of the issuing bank exceed $1 billion or the issuing bank pledges full collateral; Commercial paper, provided it is rated prime-2 by Moody or A-2 by Standard and Poor or is obligation of a company with outstanding unsecured debt rated Aa by Standard and Poor.
(c) The per capita shares of legal incompetents shall be held in IIM accounts and administered pursuant to the provisions of § 115.5 of this chapter.
(d) The shares of deceased individual beneficiaries, plus all interest and investment income accruing thereto, shall be paid to their heirs and legatees upon their determination as provided in 43 CFR part 4, subpart D.
(e) All per capita shares, including all interest and investment income accruing thereto, while they are held in trust under the provisions of this section, shall be exempt from Federal and State income taxes and shall not be considered as income or resources when determining the extent of eligibility for assistance under the Social Security Act, as amended.
(f) All per capita shares or portions thereof, including all interest and investment income accruing thereto, which are not paid out but which remain unclaimed with the Federal Government shall be maintained separately and be enhanced by investment, and shall, unless otherwise provided in
an effective plan or in enabling legislation, be subject to the provisions of the Act of September 22, 1961, 75 Stat. 584. No per capita share or portion thereof shall be transferred to the U.S. Treasury as “Monies Belonging to Individuals Whose Whereabouts are Unknown.”
[41 FR 48735, Nov. 5, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 87.11
Investment of judgment funds.
As soon as possible after the appropriation of judgment funds and pending approval of a plan or the enactment of legislation authorizing the use or distribution of the funds, the Commissioner shall invest such funds pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 162a. Investments of judgment funds and of investment income therefrom will continue to be made by the Commissioner after the approval of a plan or enactment of use or distribution legislation to the extent funds remain available for investment under such plan or legislation, and provided that thereafter investments of judgment funds made available for tribal use are not undertaken by the tribe pursuant to authorizing law. Invested judgment funds, including investment income therefrom, shall be withdrawn from investment only as currently needed under approved plans or legislation authorizing the use or distribution of such funds.
§ 87.12
Insuring the proper performance of approved plans.
A timetable prepared in cooperation with the tribal governing body shall be included in the plan submitted by the Secretary for the implementation of all programming and enrollment aspects of a plan. At any time within one calendar year after the approval date of a plan, the Area Director shall report to the Commissioner on the status of the implementation of the plan, including all enrollment and programming aspects, and thenceforth shall report to the Commissioner on an annual basis regarding any remaining or unfulfilled aspects of a plan. The Area Director shall include in his first and all subsequent annual reports a statement regarding the maintenance of the timetable, a full accounting of any per capita distribution, and the expenditure of all programming funds. The Commissioner shall report the deficient performance of any aspect of a plan to the Secretary, together with the corrective measures he has taken or intends to take.
Pt. 88

# PART 88—RECOGNITION OF ATTORNEYS AND AGENTS TO REPRESENT CLAIMANTS
Sec.
88.1
Employment of attorneys.
88.2
Employment by tribes or individual claimants.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Cross References:
For law and order regulations on Indian reservations, see part 11 of this chapter. For probate procedure, see part 15 of this chapter. For regulations governing the admission of attorneys to practice before the Department of the Interior and the offices and bureaus thereof, see 43 CFR part 1. For regulations governing the execution of attorney contracts with Indians, see part 89 of this subchapter.
§ 88.1
Employment of attorneys.
(a) Indian tribes organized pursuant to the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 461-479), as amended, may employ legal counsel. The choice of counsel and the fixing of fees are subject under 25 U.S.C. 476 to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
(b) Attorneys may be employed by Indian tribes not organized under the Act of June 18, 1934, under contracts subject to approval under 25 U.S.C. 81 and the Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950, 5 U.S.C. 481, note, by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
(c) Any action of the authorized representative of the Secretary of the Interior which approves, disapproves or conditionally approves a contract pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be final.
(d) Practice of such attorneys before the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Department of the Interior is subject to the requirements of 43 CFR 1.1 through 1.7.
[27 FR 11548, Nov. 24, 1962. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 88.2
Employment by tribes or individual claimants.
All such attorneys or agents seeking approval of their employment by Indian tribes or desiring to represent individual claimants before the Indian Bureau shall be required to comply fully with the regulations of the Department promulgated September 27, 1917, governing admission to practice, and to take the oath of allegiance and to support the Constitution of the United States, as required by section 3478 of the United States Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 204).
[22 FR 10538, Dec. 24, 1957. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
Pt. 89

# PART 89—ATTORNEY CONTRACTS WITH INDIAN TRIBES

# Tribes Organized Under The Indian Reorganization Act
Sec.
89.1-89.26
[Reserved]

# Five Civilized Tribes
89.30
Contents and approval of contracts.
89.31
Negotiation of contract.
89.32
Notice from the principal officer.
89.33
Notice from attorney.
89.34
Tentative form of contract.
89.35
Execution in quintuplet.

# Payment of Tribal Attorney Fees With Appropriated Funds
89.40
General policy.
89.41
Exceptions to policy.
89.42
Factors to be considered.
89.43
Procedures.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; secs. 89.30 to 89.35 also issued under 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, and 82a; secs. 89.40 to 89.43 also issued under 25 U.S.C. 13, 450
et seq.

# Cross Reference:
For recognition of attorneys and agents to represent claimants, see part 88 of this subchapter.

# Tribes Organized Under The Indian Reorganization Act
§§ 89.1-89.26
[Reserved]

# Five Civilized Tribes
§ 89.30
Contents and approval of contracts.
All contracts for the services of legal counsel or technical specialists negotiated and executed with the Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee, Creek, or Seminole Tribes or Nations, also known as the Five Civilized Tribes, shall be in strict compliance with the requirements of section 2103 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (25 U.S.C. 81).
[37 FR 10440, May 23, 1972. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 89.31
Negotiation of contract.
That person or governing entity recognized as having authority to act for and in behalf of any one of the Five Civilized Tribes in matters of importance may, when it is found there is a substantial need and demand therefor, negotiate and contract for services of a tribal counsel or counsels and technical specialist or specialists, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
[37 FR 10440, May 23, 1972. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 89.32
Notice from the principal officer.
Notice of intention to negotiate with attorneys or with technical specialists shall be sent by the principal tribal officer to the Superintendent. Such notice shall be accompanied by a full statement concerning the need for retaining counsel or specialists, as the case may be, the purpose for which such assistance is needed and the scope of the intended employment. The notice and statement shall be transmitted to the Area Director by the Superintendent together with the latter's report and recommendations with respect to the approval of such contract.
[37 FR 10440, May 23, 1972. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 89.33
Notice from attorney.
Attorneys desiring to execute contracts with any one of the Five Civilized Tribes shall be required to give written notice to the Area Director through the Superintendent having jurisdiction over said tribe.
[37 FR 10440, May 23, 1972. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 89.34
Tentative form of contract.
The principal officer of any one of the Choctaw, Cherokee, Creek, Seminole, and Chickasaw Tribes may, if he desires, obtain a tentative form of contract by written application to the office of the appropriate Agency Superintendent. Requests for forms for an attorney contract should include a statement reciting whether the attorney is desired as a general legal counsel in connection with the business of the tribe or as counsel in respect to specific problems on which legal counsel is desired, or specific matters requiring representation in court or before committees of Congress and the Departments of Government. Requests for forms for technical service contracts should include a statement of the particular type of service required and the purpose for which it is needed. The anticipated term of each proposed contract should be stated.
[37 FR 10440, May 23, 1972. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 89.35
Execution in quintuplet.
The contract should be executed in quintuplet, and all copies of it shall be transmitted by the Superintendent to the Area Director.
[37 FR 10440, May 23, 1972. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]

# Payment of Tribal Attorney Fees With Appropriated Funds

# Source:
48 FR 3969, Jan. 28, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 89.40
General policy.
In ordinary circumstances, legal services with respect to trust resources are provided for Indian tribe(s):
(a) By private counsel employed by tribes when such tribe is financially able and elects to do so, or
(b) By the United States as trustee through the Office of the Solicitor and/or the Department of Justice.
It is the policy of the Department of the Interior not to use federally appropriated funds to pay for private counsel to represent Indian tribes. Exceptions to that policy are listed in § 89.41 of this part.
§ 89.41
Exceptions to policy.
The Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs upon concurrence of the Solicitor and receipt of a recommendation as provided by § 89.43 may, in his/her discretion, authorize the direct or indirect expenditure of appropriated funds to pay reasonable attorney's fees in order to permit an Indian tribe to secure private legal representation in the following circumstances:
(a) When a tribe determines it necessary to bring a court action or to defend itself to protect its trust resources, rights claimed under a treaty, agreement, executive order, or statute, or its governmental powers and the Attorney General refuses assistance or advises that assistance is not otherwise available (Comptroller General's Opinion B-114868, December 6, 1976).
(b) When a tribe determines it necessary to institute or to defend itself in an administrative proceeding to protect its trust resources, rights claimed under a treaty, agreement, executive order, or statute, or to protect its governmental powers and the Solicitor is unable to provide representation due to a conflict of interest or other reasons.
(c) When a tribe determines legal assistance necessary, other than for litigation, pursuant to a contract executed under Pub. L. 93-638 and the Solicitor has determined that the services of his office are not available.
(d) When a tribe determines it critical, and the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs finds the concerns of the tribe to have merit after consultation with and the advice of the Solicitor, to intervene, in a lawsuit being handled by the Justice Department or in an administrative proceeding being handled by the Solicitor because the responsible Government Attorney refuses either to exclude or to include some facet of the suit or proceedings which the tribe claims renders such legal representation completely inadequate to protect or in contravention of the rights and interests of the tribe. Prior to consulting with and advising the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, in a lawsuit being handled by the Justice Department, the Solicitor shall seek the comments and advice of the Attorney General.
(e) When a tribe determines, and the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, after consultation with the Solicitor concurs, that a substantial possibility of a negotiated settlement or agreement exists.
(f) Payment of fees will not be allowed if such payment was not authorized before services were performed.
(g) This rule applies to expenditure of appropriated Federal funds and not a tribe's own funds on deposit in the U.S. Treasury.
§ 89.42
Factors to be considered.
The following factors are to be considered in determining whether funds should be paid to provide private legal representation for a tribe.
(a) The merits of the legal position which the tribe asserts. Greater weight will be given to those cases where the tribe's legal argument is deemed particularly meritorious than to those cases where the tribe's position, although not entirely without merit, may be relatively weak;
(b) The ability of the tribe to pay all or a part of its legal expenses out of its own funds. A review of the tribe's financial resources under this subsection will include an examination of the tribe's total expenditures to determine whether its expenditures for other purposes comport with the asserted importance of the case for which it seeks funds;
(c) Whether the question the tribe seeks to litigate is being litigated in another case by another tribe;
(d) Whether, as a matter of strategy, the issues the tribe seeks to litigate could be more satisfactorily resolved in another forum, in a different factual context, or a different time; and
(e) Whether the issue should be litigated at all in preference to a legislative or other solution.
§ 89.43
Procedures.
The information collection requirements contained in this section do not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3051
et seq.,
because it is anticipated there will be fewer than 10 respondents annually.
(a) A tribe or other organization seeking funds under § 89.41 shall submit a written request through the Agency Superintendent and the Area Director, including
(1) A detailed statement describing the nature and scope of the problems for which legal services are sought;
(2) A statement of the terms, including total anticipated costs, of the requested legal services contract;
(3) A current financial statement and a statement that the tribe does not possess sufficient tribal funds or assets to pay for all or a part of the legal services sought; and
(4) A statement of why the matter must be handled by a private attorney as opposed to Department of Justice or Department of Interior attorneys.
All requests shall be considered by a committee consisting of the Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs (Policy), or his delegate, the Director of the Office of Trust Responsibilities in BIA or his delegate, and the Associate Solicitor—Indian Affairs or his delegate.
(b) If two of the three committee members recommend approval of a tribe's request, the request, along with the committee's recommendation, shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for final determination after consultation with and the advice of the Solicitor. The committee's recommendation shall indicate the amount of funds recommended to assist the tribe, the hourly rate allowed, the maximum amount permitted to be expended in the recommended action and the tribal contributions, if any. The Assistant Secretary shall approve the request only with the concurrence of the Solicitor.
(c) The requirements imposed by this policy are supplementary to those contained in all existing regulations dealing with attorney contracts with Indian tribes and, in particular, those contained in parts 88 and 89 of this title.
Pt. 90

# PART 90—ELECTIONS OF OSAGE MINERALS COUNCIL
Sec.
90.100
What role does the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) play in the Osage Minerals Council's elections?
90.101
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9; Sec. 9, Pub. L. 59-321, 34 Stat. 539; Pub. L. 108-431, 118 Stat. 2609, 118 Stat. 2609.

# Source:
86 FR 54366, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.100
What role does the Bureau of India Affairs (BIA) play in the Osage Minerals Council's elections?
(a) The Superintendent of the Osage Agency must compile, at the request of the Chair of the Osage Minerals Council, a list of the voters of Osage descent who will be 18 years of age or over on the election day designated by the Osage Minerals Council and whose names appear on the March quarterly annuity roll at the Osage Agency as of the March quarterly payment immediately preceding the date of the election. Such list must set forth only the name and last known address of each voter.
(b) For purposes of calculating votes, the Superintendent must furnish to the Osage Minerals Council designee charged with carrying out Osage Minerals Council elections a separate list containing the name and last known address of each eligible voter and including the voter's headright interest shown on the last March quarterly annuity roll.
§ 90.101
[Reserved]
Pt. 91

# PART 91—GOVERNMENT OF INDIAN VILLAGES, OSAGE RESERVATION, OKLAHOMA
Sec.
91.1
Purpose.
91.2
Definitions.
91.3
Description of village reserves.
91.4
Plats of village reserves.
91.5
Tracts reserved from selection by individuals.
91.6
Custody of public buildings and tracts reserved from selection by individuals; village committees.
91.7
Permits to occupy land for dwelling purposes.
91.8
Sale or mortgage of improvements.
91.9
Inheritance of improvements.
91.10
Renting of improvements.
91.11
Domestic animals in village reserves.
91.12
Business enterprises and public buildings.
91.13
Health, sanitation, and sewerage disposal.
91.14
Confirmation of permits.
91.15
Suspension or amendment of regulations.

# Authority:
Subdivision 9 of sec. 2, sec. 12, Act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 539), sec. 3, Act of June 24, 1938 (52 Stat. 1034). Interpret or apply Act of April 18, 1912 (37 Stat. 86).

# Source:
28 FR 10203, Sept. 18, 1963, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 91.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations in this part is to establish policies and procedures for the government of Indian villages, Osage Reservation, Oklahoma.
§ 91.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
(b)
Superintendent
means the Superintendent or other officer in charge of Osage Agency.
(c)
Council
means the Osage Tribal Council, that elected governing body of the Osage Tribe of Indians.
(d)
Tribal Member
means any person of Osage Indian blood of whatever degree, allotted or unallotted.
(e)
Minor
means any person under 21 years of age.
(f)
Resident
means an adult tribal member who has resided in the village for thirty (30) days, in the 12-month period preceding the election.
§ 91.3
Description of village reserves.
The act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 539), as amended by the act of June 24, 1938 (52 Stat. 1034), set aside certain tribal lands exclusively as dwelling sites for the use and benefit of the Osage Indians until January 1, 1984, unless otherwise provided by Act of Congress. These lands are described as follows:
(a)
Grayhorse Indian Village.
The southeast quarter (SE
1/2
) of the southeast quarter (SE
1/4
), and the west half (W
1/2
) of the southwest quarter (SW
1/4
) of the southeast quarter (SE
1/4
), and the south half (S
1/2
) of the northeast quarter (NE
1/4
) of the southeast quarter (SE
1/4
) of the southwest quarter (SW
1/4
), and the south half (S
1/2
) of the north half (N
1/2
) of the northeast quarter (NE
1/4
) of the southeast quarter (SE
1/4
) of the southwest quarter (SW
1/4
), and the southeast quarter (SE
1/2
) of
the southeast quarter (SE
1/4
) of the southwest quarter (SW
1/4
) of sec. fifteen (15); and the north half (N
1/2
) of the northeast quarter (NE
1/4
), and the northeast quarter (NE
1/4
) of the northwest quarter (NW
1/4
) of sec. twenty-two (22), all in township twenty-four (24) north, range six (6) east of the Indian meridian, and containing 197.5 acres, more or less.
(b)
Hominy Indian Village.
Lots Six (6) and Seven (7), and the East Half (E
1/2
) of the Southwest Quarter (SW
1/4
) of Section Six (6) in Township Twenty-two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Indian Meridian, and containing 160 acres, more or less.
(c)
Pawhuska Indian Village.
Lots One (1) and Two (2), and the South Half (S
1/2
) of the Northeast Quarter (NE
1/4
) of Section Three (3) in Township Twenty-five (25) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Indian Meridian, and containing 160 acres, more or less.
[28 FR 10203, Sept. 18, 1963, as amended at 33 FR 8270, June 4, 1968. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 91.4
Plats of village reserves.
Plats of the Grayhorse Indian Village, the Pawhuska Indian Village, and the Hominy Indian Village, certified by Ralph M. Tolson, Registered Engineer, on July 5, 1966, are the official plats of dedication of said villages and shall be filed of record with the county clerk of Osage County, State of Oklahoma.
[33 FR 8270, June 4, 1968. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 91.5
Tracts reserved from selection by individuals.
The following described tracts, as shown on the plats of the three villages, are reserved from selection by individuals and are set aside for sepultural use or for public use by tribal members:
(a) Grayhorse Indian Village:
(1) Public Squares.
(2) Parks, and
(3) Cemetery.
(b) Hominy Indian Village:
(1) Public squares.
(2) Cemetery, and
(3) Lot 1 in block 1 set aside for religious and educational purposes to the Society of Friends, its Associate Executive Committee of Friends on Indian Affairs and its or their representative at Hominy, Okla., by Resolution of the Osage Tribal Council dated June 6, 1956, and approved by the Assistant Secretary of the Interior, September 7, 1956.
(c) Pawhuska Indian Village:
(1) Wakon Iron Square.
(d) Those individuals who have summer homes or dance arbors located on the Public Square of the Hominy Indian Village shall be permitted to retain said summer homes or dance arbors during their lifetimes if they are maintained in a condition satisfactory to the Hominy Indian Village Committee. Following the owner's death, the improvements shall be removed within ninety (90) days or become the property of the Hominy Indian Village.
[33 FR 8270, June 4, 1968. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 91.6
Custody of public buildings and tracts reserved from selection by individuals; village committees.
Each of the three (3) villages described herein shall organize a village committee to provide for the health, safety and welfare of its inhabitants, for the maintenance of tribal property, and to serve as custodian and manager of tribal property and improvements located within said village except that tract described in § 91.5(b)(3). Each village committee shall be composed of five (5) members, domiciled in the village, one of whom shall be designated by the committee as chairman. The committees shall be elected biennially by the residents of the villages, except in the Grayhorse Indian Village where the committee shall be appointed by the Council from among those tribal members residing in or historically associated with the village. The procedure for initial committee elections shall be established by the Council. Each village committee shall prepare a constitution and by-laws to be approved by the Council and the Superintendent before said committee will have any authority to govern, and any changes or amendments thereto must likewise be approved by the Council and the Superintendent. All actions of the committee are subject to appeal to the Council whose decision shall be final:
Provided,
That such committee
shall have no control or authority to grant permission for the use of tribal property described in § 91.5 for the holding of dances. Such authority shall remain in the Council and any group or individual using the property for dance purposes without the written permission of the Council shall be in violation of these regulations:
Provided, further,
That the village committee shall not permit the use of any of the tracts described in § 91.5 in any manner that would conflict with Council authorization for dance purposes.
§ 91.7
Permits to occupy land for dwelling purposes.
The issuance of permits for the use of land for dwelling purposes within any village reserve described in § 91.3 except tracts reserved for specific purposes by § 91.5 will be under the jurisdiction of the Superintendent. Permits may be issued only to tribal members upon application to the Superintendent:
Provided,
That only one permit shall be issued to any one individual and that erection of a dwelling house shall be started on such land within six (6) months from date of approval of the permit or such permit shall be automatically terminated except that upon written application the Superintendent may extend such permit for an addition six (6) months:
Provided, further,
That only one dwelling shall be constructed under any one permit. Permits shall be issued for the use of one to three contiguous lots, depending upon the quality and permanency of the improvements to be placed thereon. Permits issued under this section shall be made in duplicate in a manner to be prescribed by the Superintendent. The original copy shall be filed in the Branch of Realty, Osage Agency, and the duplicate copy shall be mailed to the permittee.
[33 FR 8270, June 4, 1968. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 91.8
Sale or mortgage of improvements.
No improvements located within the village reserves described in § 91.3 shall be sold, mortgaged, transferred or assigned without the approval of the Superintendent.
(a) Improvements may be mortgaged for home improvements or the erection of new improvements. Such mortgages shall be made with acceptable lending agencies and shall be approved by the Superintendent. The lending agency shall have the right:
(1) To foreclose the mortgage and to sell the improvements within six (6) months of the date of foreclosure judgment to any eligible tribal member with the understanding that the use of the land on which the improvements are situated shall be transferable to the new owner; or
(2) To foreclose the mortgage and to sell the improvements to a non-tribal member, who shall remove the improvements from the village reserve within six (6) months of the date of sale. In the event of removal of the mortgaged property, it shall be the responsibility of the lending agency to level the land on which such improvements were located and to remove all debris, sidewalks, etc., leaving the premises in an orderly condition. Failure to make such disposition within the time stated in this paragraph shall result in forfeiture of the improvements to the village committee.
(b) Improvements may be sold by the owner thereof with the approval of the Superintendent. Sale of such improvements shall be accomplished by bill of sale executed by the owner in triplicate who shall file all copies with the Superintendent. If the purchaser of such improvements is a member of the Osage Tribe, the bill of sale shall be accompanied by a relinquishment of the permit in favor of the vendee for the occupancy of the land on which such improvements are located. If the purchaser is not a member of the Osage Tribe, such purchaser shall be required to endorse an agreement on the reverse of all copies of the bill of sale that he will:
(1) Remove the improvements from the village reserve within six (6) months of date of approval of the bill of sale;
(2) Transfer the title thereof as provided in this section to a tribal member who is eligible; or
(3) Failing to make such disposition within the time stated forfeit title to the village committee.
(c) Upon approval of the bill of sale by the Superintendent, the original or certified copy shall be filed in the Branch of Realty, Osage Agency, the duplicate copy mailed to the purchaser, and the triplicate copy mailed to the seller.
§ 91.9
Inheritance of improvements.
(a) Upon the death of the owner of improvements in a village reserve, such improvements shall, in probate matters, be subject to the jurisdiction of the county courts, State of Oklahoma, and shall be subject to inheritance or bequest in accordance with applicable State and Federal laws. The land within a village reserve is held in trust for the benefit of tribal members and is not subject to inheritance or purchase.
(b) When such improvements or interests therein are inherited by or bequeathed to a non-tribal member, he or she shall dispose of such improvements in the manner provided for disposition of improvements by purchaser under § 91.8:
Provided,
That when such non-tribal member is a legally adopted minor child such child may continue to occupy the land during its minority:
Provided, further,
That when such non-tribal member is the surviving spouse such individual, so long as he or she remains single may continue to occupy the land during his or her lifetime or may sell the improvements as provided herein and may receive a proceeds therefrom. In the event such surviving spouse remarries, the right to continuous occupancy of the land pursuant to this § 91.9 shall terminate and such surviving spouse shall make disposition of such improvements as provided for purchasers in § 91.8. If upon the death of the surviving spouse title to the improvements vests in a non-tribal member, they shall be sold as provided in § 91.8 and the proceeds distributed to the persons entitled thereto.
(c) Improvements inherited by tribal members may be occupied or rented in accordance with § 91.10:
Provided,
No tribal member shall be issued more than two permits or own more than two sets of improvements, one of which must be inherited property and one occupied by the tribal member:
Provided, further,
No tribal member shall be permitted to retain more than one set of improvements for rental. If this provision is violated, the tribal member will have three years, from the date of written notice from the Superintendent that such provision has been violated, within which to dispose of the surplus property in accordance with § 91.8.
§ 91.10
Renting of improvements.
The Superintendent may issue a certificate of permission to rent for a period of one (1) year improvements located on land held under valid permit, subject to renewal in the discretion of the Superintendent, upon written application by the owner of such improvements and the prospective tenant:
Provided,
That such prospective tenant is a tribal member and the property to be rented is that heretofore occupied or inherited by the owner. Certificates of permission issued under this section may be withdrawn upon 30-day notice to the tenant by the Superintendent and such tenant expelled from the village reserve. The application and certificate of permission on a form to be prescribed by the Superintendent shall be made in triplicate and all copies forwarded to the Superintendent for action. Upon approval by the Superintendent, the original copy of the application and certificate shall be filed in the Branch of Realty, Osage Agency, the duplicate copy of each forwarded to the owner, and the triplicate copy of each forwarded to the tenant.
§ 91.11
Domestic animals in village reserves.
(a) No livestock shall be permitted to trespass in any village reserve except that unassigned lots or unplatted areas enclosed by adequate fences may be leased by the village committee with the approval of the Superintendent and the proceeds therefrom credited to the account of the village committee. Trespassing livestock may be impounded by the village committee. The village committee shall give notice of impoundment to the owner of the animal, if known, by certified mail or by posting in the village square. The notice shall advise the owner that a $10 charge shall be assessed per day for each animal impounded and a reasonable charge for forage consumed and
that the animal or animals shall be sold at the expiration of twenty (20) days from the date of mailing or posting the notice. In the event an animal is sold, the balance after deducting $10 per day for impoundment and a reasonable forage charge, shall be deposited at the Osage Agency and the owner may claim said funds if satisfactory proof of ownership is presented to the Superintendent of the Osage Agency within six (6) months of the date of sale. After six (6) months, any funds remaining on deposit will become the property of the village in which the animal was trespassing.
(b) No horses, mules, bovine, hogs, sheep, or goats shall be penned on assigned lots.
[33 FR 8270, June 4, 1968. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 91.12
Business enterprises and public buildings.
No permanent business enterprises shall be carried on within the boundaries of a village reserve and no public buildings shall be erected on lands within the boundaries of a village reserve except on tracts described in § 91.5 maintained for the use and benefit of tribal members. The construction or acquisition of dwellings for rental purposes is prohibited. The village committee may grant permission and charge fees for temporary concessions within the village reserve during Indian celebrations, dances, community gatherings, etc., such temporary permits to last only for the term of activities for which granted.
§ 91.13
Health, sanitation, and sewerage disposal.
Health, sanitation, and sewerage disposal problems within the village reserves shall be subject to and controlled by applicable County and State laws.
§ 91.14
Confirmation of permits.
The Superintendent shall prepare a certified list of all current permittees with a description of lots held, which descriptions shall conform to the plats certified July 5, 1966. Said list shall be served by certified mail on the individual permittees and the village committee chairman and shall be posted at the Osage Agency and each of the three village squares. Unless a protest is filed with the Superintendent within ninety (90) days of the mailing and posting, said certified list of assigned lots and the individual permittees shall be final and conclusive. Protests may be filed by tribal members claiming an interest in an assigned lot and such protest shall be determined by the Superintendent after notice and hearing.
[33 FR 8271, June 4, 1968. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 91.15
Suspension or amendment of regulations.
The regulations in this part may be suspended or amended at any time by the Secretary of the Interior:
Provided,
That such amendments or suspension shall not serve to change the terms or conditions of any mortgage approved in accordance with § 91.8(a).

# SUBCHAPTER G—FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
Pt. 101

# PART 101—LOANS TO INDIANS FROM THE REVOLVING LOAN FUND
Sec.
101.1
Definitions.
101.2
Kinds of loans.
101.3
Eligible borrowers under United States direct loan program.
101.4
Applications.
101.5
Approval of loans.
101.6
Modification of loans.
101.7
Management and technical assistance.
101.8
Environmental and Flood Disaster Acts.
101.9
Preservation of historical and archeological data.
101.10
Federal Reserve Regulation Z and Fair Credit Reporting Act.
101.11
Interest.
101.12
Records and reports.
101.13
Security.
101.14
Maturity.
101.15
Penalties on default.
101.16
Default on loans made by relending organizations.
101.17
Uncollectable loans made by the United States.
101.18
Uncollectable loans made by relending organizations.
101.19
Assignment of loans.
101.20
Relending by borrower.
101.21
Repayments on United States direct loans.
101.22
Repayments on loans made by relending organizations.
101.23
Approval of articles of association and bylaws.
101.24
Loans for expert assistance for preparation and trial of Indian claims.
101.25
Information collection.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 1469.

# Source:
40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 101.1
Definitions.
As used in this part 101:
Applicant
means an applicant for a United States Direct Loan from the revolving loan fund or a loan from a relending organization.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or an authorized representative.
Cooperative association
means an association of individuals organized pursuant to state, Federal, or tribal law, for the purpose of owning and operating an economic enterprise for profit with profits distributed or allocated to patrons who are members of the organization.
Corporation
means an entity organized as a corporation pursuant to state, Federal, or tribal law, with or without stock, for the purpose of owning and operating an economic enterprise.
Default
means failure of a borrower to:
(1) Make scheduled payments on a loan when due,
(2) Obtain the lender's approval for disposal of assets mortgaged as security for a loan, or
(3) Comply with the covenants, obligations, or other provisions of a loan agreement.
Economic enterprise
means any Indian-owned commercial, industrial, agricultural, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit, provided that eligible Indian ownership constitutes not less than 51 percent of the enterprise.
Equity
means the borrower's residual ownership, after deducting all business debt, of tangible business assets used in the business being financed, on which a lender can perfect a first lien position.
Financing statement
means the document filed or recorded in county or state offices pursuant to the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code notifying third parties that a lender has a lien on the chattels and/or crops of a borrower.
Indian
means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe as defined in this part.
Organization
means the governing body of any Indian tribe, or entity established or recognized by such governing body for the purpose of the Indian Financing Act.
Other organization
means any non-Indian individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or association.
Partnership
means a form of business organization in which two or more legal persons are associated as co-owners for the purposes of business or professional activities for private pecuniary gain, organized pursuant to tribal, state, or Federal law.
Reservation
means Indian reservation, California rancheria, public domain Indian allotment, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, and land held by Alaska Native groups incorporated under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended.
Revolving loan fund
means all funds that are now or hereafter a part of the revolving fund authorized by the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 986), the Act of June 26, 1936 (49 Stat. 1968) and the Act of April 14, 1950 (64 Stat. 44), as amended and supplemented including sums received in settlement of debts for livestock pursuant to the Act of May 24, 1950, (64 Stat. 190) and sums collected in repayment of loans made, including interest or other charges on loans, and any funds appropriated pursuant to section 108 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77).
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Tribe
means any Indian tribe, bank, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or any regional, village, urban or group corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended, which is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
[57 FR 46471, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.2
Kinds of loans.
Loans from the Indian Revolving Loan Fund shall be made for purposes which will improve and promote the economic development on Indian reservations.
(a) Loans may be made by the United States to eligible relending organizations for relending to members for economic enterprises and to eligible tribes for relending to members, eligible corporations, cooperative associations, partnerships and subordinate bands and for financing tribal economic enterprises, which will promote the economic development of a reservation and/or the group or members thereon. Loans made by tribes or relending organizations may be for the following purposes:
(1) To individual Indians or Natives, cooperative associations, corporations and partnerships, to finance economic enterprises operated for profit, the operation of which will contribute to the improvement of the economy of a reservation and/or the members thereon.
(2) To individual Indians or Natives for purposes of purchasing, constructing or improving housing on a reservation and to be occupied by the borrower.
(3) To individual Indians and Natives for purposes of obtaining a college or graduate education and degree in a field which will provide employment opportunities, provided that adequate funds are not available from sources such as grants, scholarships or other loan sources.
(4) To individual Indians and Natives for purposes of attending vocational schools which provide training in desired skills in a field in which there are employment opportunities, provided that adequate funds and/or training are not available from grant or scholarship sources, or federal or state training programs.
Loans may also be made by the United States to tribes for loaning to or investing in other organizations subject to the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) Direct loans may be made by the United States to eligible tribes, tribal organizations or corporations and tribal cooperative associations without fund restrictions. Direct loans to individual Indians, partnerships, and other non-tribal organizations shall not exceed $350,000. Direct loans from the United States shall be made for the following purposes:
(1) To eligible tribes, individual Indians, Natives, or associations thereof, corporations and partnerships, to finance economic enterprises operated for profit, the operation of which will contribute to the improvement of the economy of a reservation and/or the members thereon.
(2) To individual Indians and Natives for purposes of purchasing, constructing or improving housing on a reservation and to be occupied by the borrower.
(3) To individual Indians and Natives for purposes of obtaining a college or
graduate education and degree in a field which will provide employment opportunities, provided that adequate funds are not available from sources such as grants, scholarships or other loan sources.
(4) To individual Indians and Natives for purposes of attending vocational schools which provide training in desired skills in a field in which there are employment opportunities, provided that adequate funds and/or training are not available from grants or scholarship sources or federal or state training programs.
(c) Before a United States direct loan is approved, the Commissioner may require the applicants to prepare a market and capacity report on existing or proposed economic enterprises for which financing is requested if the operation involves manufacturing, selling or providing services.
(d) Loans may be made to eligible tribes and Indian organizations for use in attracting industries and economic enterprises, the operation of which will contribute to the economy of a reservation. Tribes and Indian organizations may receive loans from the revolving loan fund for investment in or lending to other organizations regardless of whether they are organizations of Indians. However, not more than 50 percent of the loan made to an Indian organization may be used for the purpose of making a loan to or investing in other organizations. Applications for loans to provide funds for lending to or investing in other organizations already in operation will be accompanied by:
(1) Audited balance sheets and operating statements of the other organization for the immediate three preceding years;
(2) Pro forma operating statement and balance sheets for the succeeding three years reflecting the results of operations after injection of the additional funds;
(3) Names of owners or if a corporation and stock has been issued, names of major stockholders and shares of stock owned by each;
(4) A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws, if incorporated, or other organization papers if not incorporated;
(5) Names of members of the board of directors and officers with a resume of education and experience, and the number of shares of stock owned by each in the corporation;
(6) Purposes for which loan or investment will be used; and
(7) If for manufacturing, selling or providing services, a market and capacity report will be prepared. If a proposed operation is to be established, the information in paragraphs (d)(2) through (7) of this section will be furnished. The Commissioner may require additional information on the other organization, if needed, to adequately evaluate the benefits which the Indian organization will receive and the economic benefits which will accrue to a reservation. If the loan is for relending to another organization, the application must show what security is being offered. If the loan is for investment in another organization, the equity to be obtained must be shown. Copies of all agreements, contracts or other documents to be executed by the Indian organization and the other organization in connection with a loan or investment shall be submitted with the application for a loan and will require Commissioner approval prior to disbursement of loan funds to the Indian organization.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 34974, Aug. 23, 1989]
§ 101.3
Eligible borrowers under United States direct loan program.
(a) Loans may be made from the revolving loan fund to Indians, eligible tribes and relending organizations, and corporations, cooperative associations and partnerships having a form of organization satisfactory to the Commissioner. Loans may be made to applicants only when, in the judgment of the Commissioner, there is a reasonable prospect of repayment. Loans may be made only to an applicant who, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is unable to obtain financing on reasonable terms and conditions from other sources such as tribal relending programs, banks, Farmers Home Administration, Small Business Administration, Production Credit Associations,
or Federal Land Banks, and is also unable to obtain a guaranteed or insured loan pursuant to title II of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77). In addition, the applicant will be required to have equity equal to 20 percent of the total cost of a new enterprise, or 20 percent of the total cost of expansion of an existing enterprise.
(b) The establishment of a United States direct revolving loan program on a reservation(s) for making direct loans will require the approval of the Commissioner. All requests for establishing a United States direct revolving loan program on a reservation will be accompanied by reasons for need, estimate of financing needs, and other sources of financing available to meet the needs. The Commissioner, in approving a United States direct loan program, may require the preparation and approval of a plan of operation for conducting the program.
(c) If local lending conditions and/or the information in an application for a loan indicate a probability that an applicant may be able to obtain the loan from other sources, the Commissioner, before approving a United States direct loan, will require the applicant to furnish letters from two customary lenders in the area who are making loans for similar purposes, stating whether or not they are willing to make a loan to the applicant for the same purposes and amount. If a customary lender will make the loan on reasonable terms and conditions, the Commissioner will not approve a United States direct loan.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 34974, Aug. 23, 1989; 57 FR 46471, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.4
Applications.
An applicant for a United States direct loan or a loan from a relending organization conducting a relending program under this part will submit an application on a form approved by the Commissioner. Applications shall include the name, current address and telephone number of the applicant(s); current and prior Taxpayer Identification Number—Employer Identification Number if a business entity, Social Security Number if an individual; and current employer's name, address, and telephone number; amount of the loan requested; purpose for which loan funds will be used; and security to be offered; period of the loan, assets, liabilities and repayment capacity of the applicant; budgets reflecting income and expenditures of the applicant; and any other information necessary to adequately evaluate the application. The borrower must sign a statement declaring no delinquency on Federal taxes or other Federal debt and borrower's good standing on dealings in procurement or non-procurement with the Federal Government. The Bureau will obtain a current credit bureau report and prescribe procedures to be used in handling loan proceeds. In addition, applications for loans to finance economic enterprises already in operation will be accompanied by:
(a) A copy of operating statements, balance sheets and budgets for the prior two operating years or applicable period thereof preceding submittal of the application;
(b) Current budget, balance sheet and operating statements; and
(c) Pro forma budgets operating statements and balance sheets showing the estimated results for operating the enterprise for two years after injection of the loan funds into the operation.
A resume of the applicant's management experience will be submitted with the application. Applications for loans and requests for advance of tribal trust funds for relending under the provisions of this part shall be accompanied by a declaration of policy and plan of operation or other acceptable plan for conducting the program. Applications for loans or modifications thereof, to establish, acquire, operate, or expand an economic enterprise shall be accompanied by a plan of operation. Declarations of policy or other plans for conducting a relending program and plans of operation for economic enterprises require the approval of the Commissioner before becoming effective. An application from a corporation, partnership or cooperative association, for a United States direct loan or a loan under a relending program for financing an economic enterprise must, in addition to financial statements and budgets, include a copy of documents establishing the entity, or the proposed
documents to be used in establishing it.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 46471, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.5
Approval of loans.
(a) Loan agreements, including those used by relending organizations in operating a relending program, must be executed on a form approved by the Commissioner. On direct United States loans, the Commissioner will approve the loan by issuing a commitment order covering the terms and conditions for making the loan.
(b) Applications for loans from relending organizations must be approved, if a tribe, by the governing body or designated committee, or other approving committee or body authorized to act on credit matters for a relending organization, before the Commissioner takes action on the application. This designated governing body of the tribe or committee must be authorized to act on behalf of the relending organization as evidenced in the organization's declaration of policy and plan of operation.
(c) Corporations, partnerships and cooperative associations organized for the purpose of establishing, acquiring, expanding, and operating an economic enterprise shall be organized pursuant to federal, state or tribal law. The form of organization shall be acceptable to the Commissioner. Economic enterprises which are or will be operated on a reservation(s) must comply with the requirements of applicable rules, resolutions and ordinances enacted by the governing body of the tribe.
§ 101.6
Modification of loans.
(a)
United States direct loans.
Any modification of the terms and provisions of a United States direct loan agreement must be requested in writing by the borrower and approved by the Commissioner. The borrower will submit the request for modification and will indicate the section(s) of the loan agreement to be modified together with a justification for the modification. Requests for modifications of loan agreements will include an agreement to abide by the provisions of the regulations in this part and future amendments and modifications thereof. In addition, a current credit bureau report, obtained by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, will be made a part of the modification request.
(b)
Relending program.
Any modification of the terms and provisions of a loan agreement of a borrower from an organization conducting a relending program must be in writing, agreed to by the borrower, and must be approved by the body authorized to act on loans and modifications thereof as provided in an approved declaration of policy and plan of operation or other plan. If a request for modification of a loan has been disapproved by the body authorized to act on the request, the rejected borrower may request the Commissioner to make a direct loan from the revolving loan fund if the Commissioner determines that the rejection is unwarranted.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.7
Management and technical assistance.
Prior to and concurrent with the approval of a United States direct loan to finance an economic enterprise, the Commissioner will assure under title V of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 that competent management and technical assistance is available to the loan applicant for preparation of the application and/or administration of funds loaned consistent with the nature of the enterprise proposed to be or in fact funded by the loan. Assistance may be provided by available Bureau of Indian Affairs staff, the tribe or other sources which the Commissioner considers competent to provide needed assistance. Contracting for management and technical assistance may be used only when adequate assistance is not available without additional cost. Contracts for providing borrowers with competent management and technical assistance shall be in accordance with applicable Federal Procurement Regulations and the Buy Indian Act of April 30, 1908, chapter 153 (35 Stat. 71), as
amended June 25, 1910, chapter 431, section 25 (36 Stat. 861).
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 34975, Aug. 23, 1989]
§ 101.8
Environmental and Flood Disaster Acts.
Loans will not be approved until there is assurance of compliance with any applicable provisions of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234, 87 Stat. 975), the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-190), (42 U.S.C. 4321) and Executive Order 11514.
§ 101.9
Preservation of historical and archeological data.
(a) On United States direct loans from the revolving loan fund and modifications thereof to provide additional loan funds which will involve excavations, road or street construction, land development or disturbance of land on known or reported historical or archeological sites, the Commissioner will take or require appropriate action to assure compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act of June 27, 1960 (74 Stat. 220; (16 U.S.C. 469)), as amended by the Act of May 24, 1974 (Pub. L. 93-291, 88 Stat. 174).
(b) On loans made by relending organizations conducting a relending program using revolving loan funds, the body authorized to act on loan applications and modifications thereof will, at the time of taking action on a loan or request for modification, inform the applicant of the applicability of this Act to the loan and advise the Commissioner of compliance or the need to obtain compliance.
§ 101.10
Federal Reserve Regulation Z and Fair Credit Reporting Act.
(a) United States direct loans and loans made by a relending organization are subject to the provisions of Federal Reserve Regulation Z (Truth In Lending, 12 CFR part 226; Pub. L. 91-508, 84 Stat. 1127). Economic enterprises which extend credit and require payment of finance charges on unpaid balances will determine the applicability of Regulation Z and comply with the requirements thereof. The Commissioner will issue any necessary instructions to assure compliance with Regulation Z on United States direct loans.
(b) Relending organizations, through their committee or other body authorized to act on loan matters on its behalf, will assure compliance with the applicable provisions of this Act.
(c) The Commissioner will require adherence to the provisions and requirements of title VI of the Fair Credit Reporting Act in making United States direct loans. Relending organizations, through the body authorized to act on credit matters, will require compliance with the requirements of the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
§ 101.11
Interest.
(a) The interest to be charged on loans by the United States shall be at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with section 104, title I, of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-262, 88 Stat. 77). The interest rate shall be determined monthly and shall be effective on advances made on loans during the current calendar month. The interest rate shall be stated in the promissory note(s) executed by the borrower(s) evidencing the advance(s).
(b) Additional charges to cover loan administration costs, including credit reports, may be charged to borrowers.
(c) Education loans may provide for deferral of interest while the borrower is in school full time or in the military service.
(d) The interest rate on loans made by relending organizations which are conducting relending programs shall not be less than the rate the organization pays on its loan(s) from the United States. Relending organizations which adopt and follow the same procedure in calculating interest on educational loans as is followed on educational loans made by the United States, will not be charged interest on loans from the United States on the amount outstanding on educational loans during the period the organization is not charging its borrowers interest.
(e) Interest rates on loan advances made by the United States as shown on promissory notes dated before April 12, 1974, will remain in effect until the loan is paid in full, refinanced, or modified to extend the repayment
terms. Unless otherwise specifically provided in a loan contract, the interest rate on advances made after April 12, 1974, will be at a rate determined pursuant to section 104 of title I of the Indian Financing Act of 1974. The interest rate on loans for expert assistance will be at a rate established in § 101.25 herein.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.12
Records and reports.
Loan agreements between the United States and tribes, corporations, partnerships, cooperative associations and individual Indians for financing economic enterprises, and to relending organizations, will require that borrowers establish and maintain accounting and operating records that are satisfactory to the Commissioner and submit written reports as required by the Commissioner. The records, accounts, and loan files shall be available for examination and audit by the Commissioner at any reasonable time. Unless an exception is approved by the Commissioner, borrowers will be required to have an annual audit made of the records of relending programs and economic enterprises financed with revolving loan funds, by a certified public accountant or a firm of certified public accountants or other qualified public accountants satisfactory to the Commissioner.
§ 101.13
Security.
(a) United States direct loans shall be secured by such security as the Commissioner may require. A lack of security will not preclude the making of a loan if the proposed use of the funds is sound and the information in the application and supporting papers correctly show that expected income will be adequate to pay all expenses and the loan principal and interest payments, indicating reasonable assurance that the loan will be repaid. Loans made by relending organizations conducting a relending program using revolving loan funds will require borrowers to give security for loans, if available, but the absence of security will not preclude the making of a loan if the proposed use of the funds is sound and the information in the application and supporting papers correctly show that expected income will be adequate to pay all expenses and the loan principal and interest payments, indicating reasonable assurance that the loan will be repaid. The declaration of policy and plan of operation of relending organizations conducting relending programs will include provisions covering the type and amount of security to be taken to secure loans made.
(b) Land purchased by an individual Indian with the proceeds of a loan and land already held in trust or restricted status by the individual Indian may be mortgaged as security for a loan in accordance with 25 CFR 152.34 and the Act of March 29, 1956 (70 Stat. 62; (25 U.S.C. 483a)). Mortgages of individually held trust or restricted land will include only an acreage of the borrower's land which the Commissioner determines is necessary to protect the loan in case of default. On proposed foreclosures which involve the sale of individually held trust or restricted land given as security for a loan, the tribe of the reservation on which the land is located will be notified in writing at least thirty calendar days in advance of the anticipated date of sale. Land purchased by a tribe with the proceeds of a loan from the revolving loan fund with title taken in a trust or restricted status, and land already held in a trust or restricted status by a tribe may not be mortgaged as security for a loan.
(1) Title to any land purchased by a tribe or by an individual Indian with revolving loan funds may be taken in trust or restricted status unless the land is located outside the boundaries of a reservation or a tribal consolidation area approved by the Secretary. Title to any land purchased by a tribe or an individual Indian which is outside the boundaries of a reservation or approved consolidation area may be taken in trust if the purchaser was the owner of trust or restricted interests in the land before the purchase. Otherwise, title shall be taken in the name of the purchaser without any restrictions on alienation, control, or use.
(c) Mortgages of leasehold interests in land held in trust or restricted status by an individual Indian, may be
taken for the purpose of borrowing capital for the development and improvement of the leased premises when permitted in the lease or lease modification agreement. Such mortgages must be approved by the lessor and Commissioner. (70 Stat. 62, (25 U.S.C. 483a)).
(d) Individuals may give assignments of income from trust property as security for loans. Tribes may give assignments of trust income as security for loans provided that the assignment shall be specific as to the source(s) of income being assigned. All assignments of trust income require approval by the Commissioner before becoming effective.
(e) Chattels may be given as security for a loan. A mortgage on chattels, the title to which is known to be in trust, requires Commissioner approval. Non-trust chattels may be mortgaged without approval of any federal official.
(f) Crops grown on lands held in trust or restricted status for the benefit of an individual Indian may be given as security for a loan when approved by the Commissioner. Crops grown on leased, trust or restricted land may be given as security for a loan when permitted by the provisions of a lease or when the owner gives written consent. Approval of the lien document by the Commissioner is required. Crops grown on trust or restricted land held by a tribe which has been assigned to an individual for use may be given as security for a loan, provided the terms of the assignment permit the assignee to give the crops as security for a loan or the tribe's governing body specifically gives consent. The lien document requires Commissioner approval. Crops grown on non-trust or non-restricted land may be mortgaged without the approval of any federal official.
(g) Title to any personal property purchased with a loan shall be taken in the name of the purchaser and mortgaged to secure the loan unless the loan is otherwise adequately secured. Tribes must adhere to the provisions of their constitutions and bylaws, corporate charters, or other organizational documents when mortgaging tribal property and assigning trust income as security for loans.
(h) Relending organizations receiving a loan from the United States for relending shall be required to assign to the United States as security for the loan all securities acquired in connection with loans made to its members, sub-organizations, or associations from such funds, unless the Commissioner determines that repayment of the loan to the United States is otherwise reasonably assured. Funds advanced to finance a tribal economic enterprise shall be secured by an assignment of net income and net assets of the economic enterprise, unless the Commissioner determines that it is not feasible to require an assignment or that repayment of the loan to the United States is otherwise reasonably assured.
(i) Securing documents or financing statements shall be filed or recorded in accordance with applicable state or federal laws except for those customarily filed in Bureau of Indian Affairs offices. Mortgages on documented vessels will be filed at the customs house designated as the home port of the vessel as shown on the marine document.
§ 101.14
Maturity.
The maturity of any United States direct loan shall not exceed thirty years. Loans made will be scheduled for repayment at the earliest possible date consistent with the purpose of the loan and the repayment capacity of the borrower.
§ 101.15
Penalties on default.
Unless otherwise provided in the loan agreement between the United States and a borrower, failure on the part of a borrower to conform to the terms of the loan agreement will be deemed grounds for the taking of any one or all of the following steps by the Commissioner:
(a) Discontinue any further advance of funds contemplated by the loan agreement.
(b) Take possession of any or all collateral given as security and in the case of individuals, corporation, partnerships or cooperative associations, the property purchased with the borrowed funds.
(c) Prosecute legal action against the borrower or against officers of corporations, tribes, bands, credit associations, cooperative associations, and other organizations.
(d) Declare the entire amount advanced immediately due and payable.
(e) Prevent further disbursement of credit funds under the control of the borrower.
(f) Withdraw any unobligated funds from the borrower.
(g) Require relending organizations conducting a relending program to apply all collections on loans to liquidate the debt to the United States.
(h) Take possession of the assets of a relending organization conducting a relending program and exercise or arrange to exercise its powers until the Commissioner has received acceptable assurance of its repayment of the revolving loan and compliance with the provisions of the terms of the loan agreement.
(i) Liquidate, operate or arrange for the operation of economic enterprises financed with revolving loans made to individuals, tribes, corporations, partnerships and cooperative associations until the indebtedness is paid or until the Commissioner has received acceptable assurance of its repayment and compliance with the terms of the loan agreement.
(j) Report the name and account information of a delinquent borrower to a credit bureau.
(k) Assess additional interest and penalty charges for the period of time that payment is not made.
(l) Assess charges to cover additional administrative costs incurred by the Government to service the account.
(m) Offset amounts owed the borrower under other Federal programs including other programs administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(n) Refer the account to a private collection agency to collect the amount due.
(o) Refer the account to the U.S. Department of Justice for collection by litigation.
(p) If the borrower is a current or retired Federal employee, take action to offset the borrower's salary or civil service retirement benefits.
(q) Refer the debt to the Internal Revenue Service for offset against any amount owed the borrower as an income tax refund.
(r) Report any written-off debt to the Internal Revenue Service as taxable income to the borrower.
(s) Recommend suspension or debarment from conducting further business with the Federal Government.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.16
Default on loans made by relending organizations.
Relending organizations conducting relending programs using revolving loan funds will follow prudent lending practices in making and servicing loans and take appropriate actions to protect their interests in the security given to secure repayment of loans. Declarations of policy and plans of operation shall include procedures which will be followed in acting to correct a default, such as modification of loan agreement or foreclosure and liquidation of security. Relending organizations employing a general counsel will refer legal questions on foreclosure procedures and sale of security to their counsel.
§ 101.17
Uncollectable loans made by the United States.
If the Secretary determines that a United States direct loan is uncollectable in whole or in part or is collectable only at an unreasonable cost, or when such action would be in the best interest of the United States, the Secretary may cancel, adjust, compromise, or reduce the amount of any loan made from the revolving loan fund. The Commissioner may adjust, compromise, subordinate, or modify the terms of any mortgage, lease, assignment, contract, agreement, or other document taken as security for loans. The cancellation of all or part of a loan shall become effective when signed by the Secretary.
[54 FR 34975, Aug. 23, 1989]
§ 101.18
Uncollectible loans made by relending organizations.
(a) Relending organizations conducting relending programs using revolving loan funds may, when approved by the Commissioner, chargeoff as uncollectible all or part of the balance of principal and interest owing on
loans which are considered to be uncollectible. Usually a chargeoff includes both principal and interest and provides for cessation of interest accruals on the principal balance owing as of the date of the chargeoff.
(b) Action to chargeoff a loan will be in the form of a resolution enacted by the committee or body authorized and responsible for actions on loan matters for the relending organization. Before action is taken to chargeoff a loan as uncollectible, the lender will make an effort, to the extent feasible, to liquidate the security given for a loan and apply the net proceeds as a repayment on the balance of principal and interest owed. The chargeoff of a loan by a relending organization as uncollectible will not reduce the principal balance owed to the United States. A chargeoff will not release the borrower of the obligation or the responsibility to make payments when his or her financial situation will permit. Chargeoff action will not release the lender of responsibility to continue its efforts to collect the loan.
§ 101.19
Assignment of loans.
A borrower of a direct loan from the United States may not assign the loan agreement or any interest in it to a third party without the consent of the Commissioner. Relending organizations which are conducting relending programs may not assign the loan agreements of borrowers, or any interest therein, to third parties without the approval of the Commissioner and the borrower.
§ 101.20
Relending by borrower.
(a) A relending organization may reloan funds loaned to it by the United States with the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner may authorize such lenders to approve applications for particular types of loans up to a specified amount.
(b) Loans shall be secured by such securities as the lender and the Commissioner may require. With the Commissioner's approval, mortgages of individually held trust or restricted land, leasehold interests, chattels, crops grown on trust or restricted land, and assignments of trust income may all be taken as security for loans.
(c) Title to personal property purchased with loans received from relending organizations using revolving loan funds in its relending program shall be taken in the name of the borrower.
(d) The term of a loan made by a relending organization conducting a relending program shall not extend beyond the maturity date of its loan from the United States, unless an exception is approved by the Commissioner and the organization has funds available from which to make scheduled repayment on its loan from the United States. Loans made will be scheduled for repayment at the earliest possible date consistent with the purpose for which a loan is made and the indicated repayment capacity of the borrower.
(e) Securing documents or financing statements shall be filed or recorded in accordance with federal or state law except those customarily filed in Bureau of Indian Affairs offices. Mortgages on documented vessels will be filed at the custom house designated as the home port of the vessel as shown on the marine document.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Further redesignated and amended at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.21
Repayments on United States direct loans.
Repayments on United States direct loans shall be made to the authorized collection officer of the Bureau of Indian Affairs who shall issue an official receipt for the repayment and deposit the collection into the revolving loan fund. Collections will first be applied to pay interest to date of payment and the balance applied on the principal installment due. Collections on loans made by relending organizations which have been declared in default in which the Commissioner has taken control of the assets of the program (including loans made with balances owing) will be made to an authorized collection officer of the Bureau of Indian Affairs who shall issue a receipt to the payor and deposit the collection in the United States revolving loan fund. The relending organization's loan from the United States will be credited with the amounts collected from its borrowers,
with the collections applied first on interest accrued and the balance applied to the principal. Payments on United States direct loans may be made in advance of due dates without penalty.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Further redesignated at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.22
Repayments on loans made by relending organizations.
Repayments on loans made by a relending organization conducting a relending program will be made to the officers of the lending organization or individuals designated and authorized in a declaration of policy and plan of operation. Collections on loans and other income to a relending program will be deposited in the lender's revolving loan account as designated in a declaration of policy and plan of operation. Collections on loans will be first applied to pay interest to date of payment with the balance applied to the principal.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Further redesignated at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.23
Approval of articles of association and bylaws.
Articles of association and bylaws of relending organizations and cooperative associations require approval of the Commissioner if they make application for a revolving credit loan.
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Further redesignated at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.24
Loans for expert assistance for preparation and trial of Indian claims.
(a) Loans may be made to Indian tribes, bands and other identifiable groups of Indians from funds authorized and appropriated under the provisions of section 1 of the Act of November 4, 1963 (Pub. L. 88-168, 77 Stat. 301; 25 U.S.C. 70n-1), as amended by the Act of September 19, 1966 (Pub. L. 89-592, 80 Stat. 814) and section 2 of the Act of May 24, 1973 (Pub. L. 93-37, 87 Stat. 73). Loan proceeds may only be used for the employment of expert assistance, other than the assistance of counsel, for the preparation and trial of claims pending before the Indian Claims Commission. Applications for loans will be submitted on forms approved by the Commissioner and shall include a justification of the need for a loan. The justification shall include a statement from the applicant's claims attorney regarding the need for a loan. The application will be accompanied by a statement signed by an authorized officer of the applicant certifying that the applicant does not have adequate funds available to obtain and pay for the expert assistance needed. The Superintendent and the Area Director will attest to the accuracy of the statement or point out any inaccuracies. Loans will be approved by issuance of a commitment order by the Commissioner.
(b) No loan shall be approved if the applicant has funds available on deposit in the United States Treasury or elsewhere in an amount adequate to obtain the expert assistance needed or if, in the opinion of the Commissioner, the fees to be paid the experts are unreasonable on the basis of the services to be performed by them.
(c) Contracts for the employment of experts are subject to the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 81 and require approval by the Commissioner.
(d) Vouchers or claims submitted by experts for payment for services rendered and reimbursement for expenses will be in accordance with the provisions of the expert assistance contract and shall be sufficiently detailed and itemized to permit an audit to determine that the amounts are in accordance with the contract. Vouchers or claims shall be reviewed by the borrower's claims attorney who will certify on the last page of the voucher or by attachment thereto, that the services have been rendered and payment is due the expert and that expenses and charges for work performed are in accordance with the provisions of the contract.
(e) Requests for advances under the loan agreement shall be accompanied by a certificate signed by an authorized officer of the borrower certifying that the borrower does not have adequate funds available from its own financial resources with which to pay the expert. The Superintendent and Area Director will attest to the accuracy of the statement or point out inaccuracies. A copy of the voucher or claim from the expert
will accompany the request for advance.
(f) Loan funds will be advanced only as needed to pay obligations incurred under approved contracts for expert assistance. The funds will be deposited in a separate account, shall not be commingled with other funds of the borrower, and shall not be disbursed for any other purpose.
(g) Loans shall bear interest at the rate of 5
1/2
percent per annum from the date funds are advanced until the loan is repaid.
(h) The principal amount of the loan advanced plus interest shall be repayable from the proceeds of any judgment received by the borrower at the time funds from the award become available to make the payment.
(77 Stat. 301 (25 U.S.C. 70n-1 to 70n-7))
[40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Further redesignated at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
§ 101.25
Information collection.
(a) The collections of information contained in §§ 101.3, 101.4, 101.12, and 101.25 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1076-0020. The information will be used to rate applicants in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in section 103 of the Indian Financing Act, as amended. Response is required to obtain a benefit in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1451.
(b) Public reporting burden for this information is estimated to vary from 15 minutes to 3 hours per response, with an average of one hour per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspects of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Mailstop 337-SIB, 18th and C Streets NW., Washington, DC 20240; and the Paperwork Reduction Project ­(1076-0020), Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503.
[54 FR 34975, Aug. 23, 1989. Redesignated at 57 FR 46472, Oct. 8, 1992]
Pt. 103

# PART 103—LOAN GUARANTY, INSURANCE, AND INTEREST SUBSIDY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
103.1
What does this part do?
103.2
Who does the Program help?
103.3
Who administers the Program?
103.4
What kinds of loans will BIA guarantee or insure?
103.5
What size loan will BIA guarantee or insure?
103.6
To what extent will BIA guarantee or insure a loan?
103.7
Must the borrower have equity in the business being financed?
103.8
Is there any cost for a BIA guaranty or insurance coverage?

# Subpart B—How a Lender Obtains a Loan Guaranty or Insurance Coverage
103.9
Who applies to BIA under the Program?
103.10
What lenders are eligible under the Program?
103.11
How does BIA approve lenders for the Program?
103.12
How does a lender apply for a loan guaranty?
103.13
How does a lender apply for loan insurance coverage?
103.14
Can BIA request additional information?
103.15
Are there any prohibited loan terms?
103.16
How does BIA approve or reject a loan guaranty or insurance application?
103.17
Must the lender follow any special procedures to close the loan?
103.18
How does BIA issue a loan guaranty or confirm loan insurance?
103.19
When must the lender pay BIA the loan guaranty or insurance premium?

# Subpart C—Interest Subsidy
103.20
What is interest subsidy?
103.21
Who applies for interest subsidy payments, and what is the application procedure?
103.22
How does BIA determine the amount of interest subsidy?
103.23
How does BIA make interest subsidy payments?
103.24
How long will BIA make interest subsidy payments?

# Subpart D—Provisions Relating to Borrowers
103.25
What kind of borrower is eligible under the Program?
103.26
What must the borrower supply the lender in its loan application?
103.27
Can the borrower get help preparing its loan application or putting its loan funds to use?

# Subpart E—Loan Transfers
103.28
What if the lender transfers part of the loan to another person?
103.29
What if the lender transfers the entire loan?

# Subpart F—Loan Servicing Requirements
103.30
What standard of care must a lender meet?
103.31
What loan servicing requirements apply to BIA?
103.32
What sort of loan documentation does BIA expect the lender to maintain?
103.33
Are there reporting requirements?
103.34
What if the lender and borrower decide to change the terms of the loan?

# Subpart G—Default and Payment by BIA
103.35
What must the lender do if the borrower defaults on the loan?
103.36
What options and remedies does the lender have if the borrower defaults on the loan?
103.37
What must the lender do to collect payment under its loan guaranty certificate or loan insurance coverage?
103.38
Is there anything else for BIA or the lender to do after BIA makes payment?
103.39
When will BIA refuse to pay all or part of a lender's claim?
103.40
Will BIA make exceptions to its criteria for denying payment?
103.41
What happens if a lender violates provisions of this part?
103.42
How long must a lender comply with Program requirements?
103.43
What must the lender do after repayment in full?

# Subpart H—Definitions and Miscellaneous Provisions
103.44
What certain terms mean in this part.
103.45
Information collection.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 1498, 1511.

# Source:
66 FR 3867, Jan. 17, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 103.1
What does this part do?
This part explains how to obtain and use a BIA loan guaranty or loan insurance agreement under the Program, and who may do so. It also describes how to obtain and use interest subsidy payments under the Program, and who may do so.
§ 103.2
Who does the Program help?
The purpose of the Program is to encourage eligible borrowers to develop viable Indian businesses through conventional lender financing. The direct function of the Program is to help lenders reduce excessive risks on loans they make. That function in turn helps borrowers secure conventional financing that might otherwise be unavailable.
§ 103.3
Who administers the Program?
Authority for administering the Program ultimately rests with the Secretary, who may exercise that authority directly at any time. Absent a direct exercise of authority, however, the Secretary delegates Program authority to BIA officials through the U.S. Department of Interior Departmental Manual. A lender should submit all applications and correspondence to the BIA office serving the borrower's location.
§ 103.4
What kinds of loans will BIA guarantee or insure?
In general, BIA may guarantee or insure any loan made by an eligible lender to an eligible borrower to conduct a lawful business organized for profit. There are several important exceptions:
(a) The business must contribute to the economy of an Indian reservation or tribal service area recognized by BIA;
(b) The borrower may not use the loan for relending purposes;
(c) If any portion of the loan is used to refinance an existing loan, the borrower must be current on the existing loan; and
(d) BIA may not guarantee or insure a loan if it believes the lender would be
willing to extend the requested financing without a BIA guaranty or insurance coverage.
§ 103.5
What size loan will BIA guarantee or insure?
BIA can guarantee or insure a loan or combination of loans of up to $500,000 for an individual Indian, or more for an acceptable Indian business entity, Tribe, or tribal enterprise involving two or more persons. No individual Indian may have an outstanding principal balance of more than $500,000 in guaranteed or insured loans at any time. BIA can limit the size of loans it will guarantee or insure, depending on the resources BIA has available.
§ 103.6
To what extent will BIA guarantee or insure a loan?
(a) BIA can guarantee up to 90 percent of the unpaid principal and accrued interest due on a loan.
(b) BIA can insure up to the lesser of:
(1) 90 percent of the unpaid principal and accrued interest due on a loan; or
(2) 15 percent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all loans the lender has insured under the Program as of the date the lender makes a claim under its insurance coverage.
(c) BIA's guaranty certificate or loan insurance agreement should reflect the lowest guaranty or insurance percentage rate that satisfies the lender's risk management requirements.
(d) Absent exceptional circumstances, BIA will allow no more than:
(1) Two simultaneous guarantees under the Program covering outstanding loans from the same lender to the same borrower; or
(2) One loan guaranty under the Program when the lender simultaneously has one or more outstanding loans insured under the Program to the same borrower.
§ 103.7
Must the borrower have equity in the business being financed?
The borrower must be projected to have at least 20 percent equity in the business being financed, immediately after the loan is funded. If a substantial portion of the loan is for construction or renovation, the borrower's equity may be calculated based upon the reasonable estimated value of the borrower's assets after completion of the construction or renovation.
§ 103.8
Is there any cost for a BIA guaranty or insurance coverage?
BIA charges the lender a premium for a guaranty or insurance coverage.
(a) The premium is:
(1) Two percent of the portion of the original loan principal amount that BIA guarantees; or
(2) One percent of the portion of the original loan principal amount that BIA insures, without considering the 15 percent aggregate outstanding principal limitation on the lender's insured loans.
(b) Lenders may pass the cost of the premium on to the borrower, either by charging a one-time fee or by adding the cost to the principal amount of the borrower's loan. Adding the premium to the principal amount of the loan will not make any further premium due. BIA will guarantee or insure the additional principal to the same extent as the original approved principal amount.

# Subpart B—How a Lender Obtains a Loan Guaranty or Insurance Coverage
§ 103.9
Who applies to BIA under the Program?
The lender is responsible for determining whether it will require a BIA guaranty or insurance coverage, based upon the loan application it receives from an eligible borrower. If the lender requires a BIA guaranty or insurance coverage, the lender is responsible for completing and submitting a guaranty application or complying with a loan insurance agreement under the Program.
§ 103.10
What lenders are eligible under the Program?
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a lender is eligible under the Program, and may be considered for BIA approval, if the lender is:
(1) Regularly engaged in the business of making loans;
(2) Capable of evaluating and servicing loans in accordance with reasonable and prudent industry standards; and
(3) Otherwise reasonably acceptable to BIA.
(b) The following lenders are not qualified to issue loans under the Program:
(1) An agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government;
(2) A lender that borrows money from any Federal Government source, other than the Federal Reserve Bank System, for purposes of relending;
(3) A lender that does not include the interest on loans it makes in gross income, for purposes of chapter 1, title 26 of the United States Code; and
(4) A lender that does not keep any ownership interest in loans it originates.
§ 103.11
How does BIA approve lenders for the Program?
(a) BIA approves each lender by entering into a loan guaranty agreement and/or a loan insurance agreement with it. BIA may provide up to three different levels of approval for a lender making guaranteed loans, depending on factors such as:
(1) The number of loans the lender makes under the Program;
(2) The total principal balance of the lender's Program loans;
(3) The number of years the lender has been involved with the Program;
(4) The relative benefits and opportunities the lender has given to Indian business efforts through the Program; and
(5) The lender's historical compliance with Program requirements.
(b) BIA will consider a lender's loan guaranty agreement and/or loan insurance agreement suspended as of:
(1) The effective date of a change in the lender's corporate structure;
(2) The effective date of a merger between the lender and any other entity, when the lender is not the surviving entity; or
(3) The start of any legal proceeding in which substantially all of the lender's assets may be subject to disposition through laws governing bankruptcy, insolvency, or receivership.
(c) A change in a lender's name, without any other change specified under paragraph (b) of this section, will not cause a suspension of the lender's loan guaranty agreement and/or loan insurance agreement. The lender should notify BIA of its name change as soon as possible.
(d) If a lender's loan guaranty agreement and/or loan insurance agreement is suspended under paragraph (b) of this section, the lender, or its successor in interest, must enter into a new loan guaranty agreement and/or loan insurance agreement with BIA in order to secure any new BIA loan guarantees or insurance coverage.
(e) The suspension of a loan guaranty agreement and/or loan insurance agreement does not affect the validity of any guaranty certificate or insurance coverage in effect before the date of the suspension. Any such certificate or insurance coverage will remain governed by applicable terms of the suspended loan guaranty agreement and/or loan insurance agreement.
§ 103.12
How does a lender apply for a loan guaranty?
To apply for a loan guaranty, a BIA-approved lender must submit to BIA a loan guaranty application request form, together with each of the following:
(a) A written explanation from the lender indicating why it needs a BIA guaranty for the loan, and the minimum loan guarantee percentage it will accept;
(b) A copy of the borrower's complete loan application;
(c) A description of the borrower's equity in the business being financed;
(d) A copy of the lender's independent credit analysis of the borrower's business, repayment ability, and loan collateral (including insurance);
(e) An original report from a nationally-recognized credit bureau, dated within 90 days of the date of the lender's loan guaranty application package, outlining the credit history of the borrower, and to the extent permitted by law, each co-maker or guarantor of the loan (if any);
(f) A copy of the lender's loan commitment letter to the borrower, showing at a minimum the proposed loan
amount, purpose, interest rate, schedule of payments, and security (including insurance requirements), and the lender's terms and conditions for funding;
(g) The lender's good faith estimate of any loan-related fees and costs it will charge the borrower, as authorized under this part;
(h) If any significant portion of the loan will be used to finance construction, renovation, or demolition work, the lender's:
(1) Insurance and bonding requirements for the work;
(2) Proposed draw requirements; and
(3) Proposed work inspection procedures;
(i) If any significant portion of the loan will be used to refinance or otherwise retire existing indebtedness:
(1) A clear description of all loans being paid off, including the names of all makers, cosigners and guarantors, maturity dates, payment schedules, uncured delinquencies, collateral, and payoff amounts as of a specific date; and
(2) A comparison of the terms of the loan or loans being paid off and the terms of the new loan, identifying the advantages of the new loan over the loan being paid off.
§ 103.13
How does a lender apply for loan insurance coverage?
BIA-approved lenders can make loans insured under the Program in two ways, depending on the size of the loan:
(a) For loans in an original principal amount of up to $100,000 per borrower, the lender can make each loan in accordance with the lender's loan insurance agreement, without specific prior approval from BIA.
(b) For loans in an original principal amount of over $100,000, the lender must seek BIA's specific prior approval in each case. The lender must submit a loan insurance coverage application request form, together with the same information required for a loan guaranty under § 103.12, except for the information required by § 103.12(a).
(c) The lender must submit a loan insurance application package even for a loan of less than $100,000 if:
(1) The total outstanding balance of all insured loans the lender is extending to the borrower under the Program exceeds $100,000; or
(2) the lender makes a request for interest subsidy, pursuant to § 103.21.
§ 103.14
Can BIA request additional information?
BIA may require the lender to provide additional information, whenever BIA believes it needs the information to properly evaluate a new lender, guaranty application, or insurance application. After BIA issues a loan guaranty or insurance coverage, the lender must let BIA inspect the lender's records at any reasonable time for information concerning the Program.
§ 103.15
Are there any prohibited loan terms?
A loan agreement guaranteed or insured under the Program may not contain:
(a) Charges by the lender styled as “points,” loan origination fees, or any similar fees (however named), except that if authorized in the loan agreement, the lender may charge the borrower a reasonable annual loan servicing fee that:
(1) Is not included as part of the loan principal; and
(2) Does not bear interest;
(b) Charges of any kind by the lender or by any third party except for the reasonable and customary cost of legal and architectural services, broker commissions, surveys, compliance inspections, title inspection and/or insurance, lien searches, appraisals, recording costs, premiums for required hazard, liability, key man life, and other kinds of insurance, and such other charges as BIA may approve in writing;
(c) A loan repayment term of over 30 years;
(d) Payments scheduled less frequently than annually;
(e) A prepayment penalty, unless the terms of the penalty are clearly specified in BIA's loan guaranty or loan insurance conditions;
(f) An interest rate greater than what BIA considers reasonable, taking into account the range of rates prevailing in the private market for similar loans;
(g) A variable interest rate, unless the rate is tied to a specific prime rate
published from time to time by a nationally recognized financial institution or news source;
(h) An increased rate of interest based on default;
(i) A fee imposed for the late repayment of any installment due, except for a late fee that:
(1) Is imposed only after the borrower is at least 30 days late with payment;
(2) Does not bear interest; and
(3) Equals no more than 5 percent of the late installment;
(j) An “insecurity” clause, or any similar provision permitting the lender to declare a loan default solely on the basis of its subjective view of the borrower's changed repayment prospects;
(k) A requirement that the borrower take title to any real or personal property purchased with loan proceeds by a title instrument containing restrictions on alienation, control or use of the property, unless otherwise required by applicable law; or
(l) A requirement that a borrower which is a tribe provide as security a general assignment of the tribe's trust income. If otherwise lawful, a tribe may provide as loan security an assignment of trust income from a specific source.
§ 103.16
How does BIA approve or reject a loan guaranty or insurance application?
(a) BIA reviews each guaranty or insurance application, and may evaluate each loan application independently from the lender. BIA bases its loan guaranty or insurance decisions on many factors, including compliance with this part, and whether there is a reasonable prospect of loan repayment from business cash flow, or if necessary, from liquidating loan collateral. Lenders are expected to obtain a first lien security interest in enough collateral to reasonably secure repayment of each loan guaranteed or insured under the Program, to the extent that collateral is available.
(b) BIA approves applications by issuing an approval letter, followed by the procedures in § 103.18. If the guaranty or insurance application is incomplete, BIA may return the application to the lender, or hold the application while the lender submits the missing information. If BIA denies the application, it will provide the lender with a written explanation, with a copy to the borrower.
§ 103.17
Must the lender follow any special procedures to close the loan?
(a) BIA officials or their representatives may attend the closing of any loan or loan modification that BIA agrees to guarantee or insure. For guaranteed loans, and insured loans that BIA must individually review under this part, the lender must give BIA notice of the date of closing at least 5 business days before closing occurs.
(b) At or prior to closing, the lender must obtain appropriate, satisfactory title and/or lien searches for each asset to be used as loan collateral.
(c) At or prior to closing, the lender must obtain recent appraisals for all real property and improvements to be used as collateral for the loan, to the extent required by law.
(d) At or prior to closing, the lender must document that the lender and borrower have complied with all applicable Federal, State, local, and tribal laws implicated by financing the borrower's business, for example by securing:
(1) Copies of all permits and licenses required to operate the borrower's business;
(2) Environmental studies required for construction and/or business operations under NEPA and other environmental laws;
(3) Archeological or historical studies required by law; and
(4) Certification by a registered surveyor or appropriate BIA official indicating that the proposed business will not be located in a special flood hazard area, as defined by applicable law.
(e) The lender must supply BIA with copies of all final, signed loan closing documents within 30 days following closing. To the extent applicable, loan closing documents must include the following:
(1) Promissory notes;
(2) Security agreements, including pledge and similar agreements, and related financing statements (together
with BIA's written approval of any assignment of specific tribal trust assets under § 103.15(l), or of any security interest in an individual Indian money account);
(3) Mortgage instruments or deeds of trust (together with BIA's written approval, if required by 25 U.S.C. 483a, or if the mortgage is of a leasehold interest in tribal trust property);
(4) Guarantees (other than from BIA);
(5) Construction contracts, and plans and specifications;
(6) Leases related to the business (together with BIA's written approval, if required under 25 CFR part 162);
(7) Attorney opinion letters;
(8) Resolutions made by a Tribe or business entity;
(9) Waivers or partial waivers of sovereign immunity; and
(10) Similar instruments designed to document the loan, establish the basis for a security interest in loan collateral, and comply with applicable law.
(f) Unless BIA indicates otherwise in writing, the lender must close a guaranteed or insured loan within 90 days of any approval provided under § 103.16.
§ 103.18
How does BIA issue a loan guaranty or confirm loan insurance?
(a) A loan is guaranteed under the Program when all of the following occur:
(1) BIA issues a signed loan guaranty certificate bearing a series number, an authorized signature, a guaranty percentage rate, the lender's name, the borrower's name, the original principal amount of the loan, and such other terms and conditions as BIA may require;
(2) The loan closes and funds;
(3) The lender pays BIA the applicable loan guaranty premium; and
(4) The lender meets all of the conditions listed in the loan guaranty certificate.
(b) A loan is insured under the Program when all of the following occur:
(1) The loan's purpose and terms meet the requirements of the Program and the lender's loan insurance agreement with BIA;
(2) The loan closes and funds;
(3) The lender notifies BIA of the borrower's identity and organizational structure, the amount of the loan, the interest rate, the payment schedule, and the date on which the loan closing and funding occurred;
(4) The lender pays BIA the applicable loan insurance premium;
(5) If over $100,000 or if the loan requires interest subsidy, BIA approves the loan in writing; and
(6) If over $100,000 or if the loan requires interest subsidy, the lender meets all of the conditions listed in BIA's written loan approval.
§ 103.19
When must the lender pay BIA the loan guaranty or insurance premium?
The premium is due within 30 calendar days of the loan closing. If not paid on time, BIA will send the lender written notice by certified mail (return receipt requested), or by a nationally-recognized overnight delivery service (signature of recipient required), stating that the premium is due immediately. If the lender fails to make the premium payment within 30 calendar days of the date of BIA's notice, BIA's guaranty certificate or insurance coverage with respect to that particular loan is void, without further action.

# Subpart C—Interest Subsidy
§ 103.20
What is interest subsidy?
Interest subsidy is a payment BIA makes for the benefit of the borrower, to reimburse part of the interest payments the borrower has made on a loan guaranteed or insured under the Program. It is available to borrowers whose projected or historical earnings before interest and taxes, after adjustment for extraordinary items, is less than the industry norm.
§ 103.21
Who applies for interest subsidy payments, and what is the application procedure?
(a) An eligible lender must request interest subsidy payments on behalf of an eligible borrower, after determining that the borrower qualifies. Typically, the lender should include a request for interest subsidy at the time it applies for a guaranty or insurance coverage under the Program. A request for interest subsidy must be supported by the information required in §§ 103.12 and
103.13 (relating to loan guaranty and insurance coverage applications). BIA approves, returns, or rejects interest subsidy requests in the same manner indicated in § 103.16, based on the factors in § 103.20 and BIA's available resources.
(b) BIA's approval of interest subsidy for an insured loan may provide for specific limitations on the manner in which the lender and borrower can modify the loan.
§ 103.22
How does BIA determine the amount of interest subsidy?
Interest subsidy payments should equal the difference between the lender's rate of interest and the rate determined in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1464. BIA will fix the amount of interest subsidy as of the date it approves the interest subsidy request.
[66 FR 3867, Jan. 17, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 63543, Oct. 15, 2002]
§ 103.23
How does BIA make interest subsidy payments?
The lender must send BIA reports at least quarterly on the borrower's loan payment history, together with a calculation of the interest subsidy then due. The lender's reports and calculation do not have to be in any specific format, but in addition to the calculation the reports must contain at least the information required by § 103.33(a). Based on the lender's reports and calculation, BIA will send interest subsidy payments to the borrower in care of the lender. The payments belong to the borrower, but the borrower and lender may agree in advance on how the borrower will use interest subsidy payments. BIA may verify and correct interest subsidy calculations and payments at any time.
§ 103.24
How long will BIA make interest subsidy payments?
(a) BIA will issue interest subsidy payments for the term of the loan, up to 3 years. If interest subsidy payments still are justified, the lender may apply for up to two 1-year extensions of this initial term. BIA will make interest subsidy payments on a single loan for no more than 5 years.
(b) BIA will choose the date from which it calculates interest subsidy years, usually the date the lender first extends the loan funds. Interest subsidy payments will apply to all loan payments made in the calendar years following that date.
(c) Interest subsidy payments will not be due for any loan payment made after the corresponding loan guaranty or insurance coverage stops under the Program, regardless of the circumstances.

# Subpart D—Provisions Relating to Borrowers
§ 103.25
What kind of borrower is eligible under the Program?
(a) A borrower is eligible for a BIA-guaranteed or insured loan if the borrower is:
(1) An Indian individual;
(2) An Indian-owned business entity organized under Federal, State, or tribal law, with an organizational structure reasonably acceptable to BIA;
(3) A tribe; or
(4) A business enterprise established and recognized by a tribe.
(b) To be eligible for a BIA-guaranteed or insured loan, a business entity or tribal enterprise must be at least 51 percent owned by Indians. If at any time a business entity or tribal enterprise becomes less than 51 percent Indian owned, the lender either may declare a default as of the date the borrower stopped being at least 51 percent Indian owned and exercise its remedies under this part, or else continue to extend the loan to the borrower and allow BIA's guaranty or insurance coverage to become invalid.
[66 FR 3867, Jan. 17, 2001; 66 FR 46307, Sept. 4, 2001]
§ 103.26
What must the borrower supply the lender in its loan application?
The lender may use any form of loan application it chooses. However, the borrower must supply the lender the information listed in this section in order for BIA to process a guaranty or insurance coverage application:
(a) The borrower's precise legal name, address, and tax identification number or social security number;
(b) Proof of the borrower's eligibility under the Program;
(c) A statement signed by the borrower, indicating that it is not delinquent on any Federal tax or other debt obligation;
(d) The borrower's business plan, including resumes of all principals and a detailed discussion of the product or service to be offered, market factors, the borrower's marketing strategy, and any technical assistance the borrower may require;
(e) A detailed description of the borrower's equity in the business being financed, including the method(s) of valuation;
(f) The borrower's balance sheets and operating statements for the preceding 3 years, or so much of that period that the borrower has been in business;
(g) The borrower's current financial statement, and the financial statements of all co-makers and guarantors of the loan (other than BIA);
(h) At least 3 years of financial projections for the borrower's business, consisting of pro-forma balance sheets, operating statements, and cash flow statements;
(i) A detailed list of all proposed collateral for the loan, including asset values and the method(s) of valuation;
(j) A detailed list of all proposed hazard, liability, key man life, and other kinds of insurance the borrower will maintain on its business assets and operations;
(k) If any significant portion of the loan will be used to finance construction, renovation, or demolition work:
(1) Written quotes for the work from established and reputable contractors; and
(2) To the extent available, copies of all construction and architectural contracts for the work, plans and specifications, and applicable building permits;
(l) If the borrower is a tribe or a tribal enterprise, resolutions by the tribe and proof of authority under tribal law permitting the borrower to borrow the loan amount and offer the proposed loan collateral; and
(m) If the borrower is a business entity, resolutions by the appropriate governing officials and proof of authority under its organizing documents permitting the borrower to borrow the loan amount and offer the proposed loan collateral.
§ 103.27
Can the borrower get help preparing its loan application or putting its loan funds to use?
A borrower may seek BIA's assistance when preparing a loan application or when planning business operations, including assistance identifying and complying with applicable laws as indicated by § 103.17(d). The borrower should contact the BIA field or agency office serving the area in which the borrower's business is to be located, or if there is no separate field or agency office serving the area, then the borrower should contact the BIA regional office serving the area.

# Subpart E—Loan Transfers
§ 103.28
What if the lender transfers part of the loan to another person?
(a) A lender may transfer one or more interests in a guaranteed loan to another person or persons, as long as the parties have in place an agreement that designates one person to perform all of the duties required of the lender under the Program and the loan guaranty certificate. Starting on the date of the transfer, only the person designated to perform the duties of the lender will be entitled to exercise the rights conferred by BIA's loan guaranty certificate, and will from that point forward be considered the lender for purposes of the Program. A lender under the Program must both service the guaranteed loan and own at least a 10 percent interest in the guaranteed loan. BIA will not consider more than one person at any given time to be the lender with respect to any loan guaranty certificate. If the person designated to perform the duties of the lender in an agreement among loan participants is not the original lender, then the provisions of § 103.29(a) will apply (relating to sale or assignment of guaranteed loans), and the person designated to perform the duties of the lender must give BIA notice of its interest in the loan. Failure to provide notice in accordance with § 103.29(a) will void BIA's loan guaranty certificate, without further action.
(b) Transferring any interest in an insured loan to another person will void the insurance coverage for that loan, except where the transfer is effected by a merger.
§ 103.29
What if the lender transfers the entire loan?
(a) A lender may transfer all of its rights in a guaranteed loan to any other person. The acquiring person must send BIA written notice of the transfer, describing the borrower, the loan, BIA's loan guaranty certificate number, and the acquiring person's name and address. Starting on the date of the transfer, only the acquiring person will be entitled to exercise the rights conferred by BIA's loan guaranty certificate, and will from that point forward be considered the lender for purposes of the Program. The acquiring person must service the guaranteed loan and otherwise perform all of the duties required of the lender under the Program and the loan guaranty certificate. Except when a transfer is effected by a merger, any failure by the acquiring person to send BIA proper notice of the transfer within 30 calendar days of the transfer date will void BIA's loan guaranty certificate, without further action.
(b) Transferring an insured loan to another person will void the insurance coverage for that loan, except where the transfer is effected by a merger.
(c) If a lender is not the surviving entity after a merger, the lender's successor must notify BIA in writing of the change within 30 calendar days of the merger. The lender also must re-apply to become an approved lender under the Program, as indicated in § 103.11.

# Subpart F—Loan Servicing Requirements
§ 103.30
What standard of care must a lender meet?
Lenders must service all loans guaranteed or insured under the Program in a commercially reasonable manner, in accordance with standards and procedures adopted by prudent lenders in the BIA region in which the borrower's business is located, and in accordance with this part. If the lender fails to follow any of these standards, BIA may reduce or eliminate entirely the amount payable under its guaranty or insurance coverage to the extent BIA can reasonably attribute the loss to the lender's failure. BIA also may deny payment completely if the lender gets a loan guaranty or insurance coverage through fraud, or negligently allows a borrower's fraudulent loan application or use of loan funds to go undetected. In particular, and without limitation, lenders must:
(a) Check and verify information contained in the borrower's loan application, such as the borrower's eligibility, the authority of persons acting on behalf of the borrower, and the title status of any proposed collateral;
(b) Take reasonable precautions to assure that loan proceeds are used as specified in BIA's guaranty certificate or written insurance approval, or if not so specified, then in descending order of importance:
(1) BIA's written loan guaranty approval;
(2) The loan documents;
(3) The terms of the lender's final loan commitment to the borrower; or
(4) The borrower's loan application;
(c) When feasible, require the borrower to use automatic bank account debiting to make loan payments;
(d) Require the borrower to take title to real and personal property purchased with loan proceeds in the borrower's own name, except for real property to be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of a borrower that is a tribe;
(e) Promptly record all security interests and subsequently keep them in effect. Lenders must record all mortgages and other security interests in accordance with State and local law, including the laws of any tribe that may have jurisdiction. Lenders also must record any leasehold mortgages or assignments of income involving individual Indian or tribal trust land with the BIA office having responsibility for maintaining records on that trust land;
(f) Assure, to the extent reasonably practicable, that the borrower and any guarantor of the loan (other than BIA) keep current on all taxes levied on real
and personal property used in the borrower's business or as collateral for the loan, and on all applicable payroll taxes;
(g) Assure, to the extent reasonably practicable, that all required insurance policies remain in effect, including hazard, liability, key man life, and other kinds of insurance, in amounts reasonably necessary to protect the interests of the borrower, the borrower's business, and the lender;
(h) Assure, to the extent reasonably practicable, that the borrower remains in compliance with all applicable Federal, State, local and tribal laws, including environmental laws and laws concerning the preservation of historical and archeological sites and data;
(i) Assure, to the extent reasonably practicable, that the borrower causes any construction, renovation, or demolition work funded by the loan to proceed in accordance with approved construction contracts and plans and specifications, which must be sufficient in scope and detail to adequately govern the work;
(j) Reserve for itself and BIA the right to inspect the borrower's business records and all loan collateral at any reasonable time;
(k) Promptly notify the borrower in writing of any material breach by the borrower of the terms of its loan, with specific instructions on how to cure the breach and a deadline for doing so;
(l) Participate in any probate, receivership, bankruptcy, or similar proceeding involving the borrower and any guarantor or co-maker of the borrower's debt, to the extent necessary to maintain the greatest possible rights to repayment; and
(m) Otherwise seek to avoid and mitigate any potential loss arising from the loan, using at least that level of care the lender would use if it did not have a BIA loan guaranty or insurance coverage.
§ 103.31
What loan servicing requirements apply to BIA?
Once a lender extends a loan that is guaranteed or insured under the Program, BIA has no responsibility for decisions concerning it, except for:
(a) Any approvals required under this part;
(b) Any decisions reserved to BIA under conditions of BIA's guaranty certificate or insurance coverage; and
(c) Decisions concerning a loan that the lender has assigned to BIA or to which BIA is subrogated by virtue of paying a claim based on a guaranty certificate or insurance coverage.
§ 103.32
What sort of loan documentation does BIA expect the lender to maintain?
For every loan guaranteed or insured under the Program, the lender must maintain:
(a) BIA's original loan guaranty certificate or insurance coverage approval letter, if applicable;
(b) Original signed and/or certified counterparts of all final loan documents, including those listed in § 103.17 (concerning documents required for loan closing), all renewals, modifications, and additions to those documents, and signed settlement statements;
(c) Originals or copies, as appropriate, of all documents gathered by the lender under §§ 103.12, 103.13 and 103.26 (concerning information submitted by the borrower in its loan application, and information supplied to BIA in the lender's loan guaranty or insurance coverage application);
(d) Originals or copies, as appropriate, of all applicable insurance binders or certificates, including without limitation hazard, liability, key man life, and title insurance;
(e) A complete and current history of all loan transactions, including dated disbursements, payments, adjustments, and notes describing all contacts with the borrower;
(f) Originals or copies, as appropriate, of all correspondence with the borrower, including default notices and evidence of receipt;
(g) Originals or copies, as appropriate, of all correspondence, notices, news items or other information concerning the borrower, whether gathered by the lender or furnished to it, containing material information about the borrower and its business operations;
(h) Originals or copies, as appropriate, of all advertisements, notices, title instruments, accountings, and
other documentation of efforts to liquidate loan collateral; and
(i) Originals or copies, as appropriate, of all notices, pleadings, motions, orders, and other documents associated with any legal proceeding involving the lender and the borrower or its assets, including without limitation judicial or non-judicial foreclosure proceedings, suits to collect payment, bankruptcy proceedings, probate proceedings, and any settlement associated with threatened or actual litigation.
§ 103.33
Are there reporting requirements?
(a) The lender must periodically report the borrower's loan payment history so that BIA can recalculate the government's contingent liability. Loan payment history reports must be quarterly unless BIA provides otherwise for a particular loan. These reports can be in any format the lender desires, as long as they contain:
(1) The lender's name;
(2) The borrower's name;
(3) A reference to BIA's Loan Guaranty Certificate or Loan Insurance Agreement number;
(4) The lender's internal loan number; and
(5) The date and amount of all loan balance activity for the reporting period.
(b) If applicable, the lender must supply a calculation of any interest subsidy payments that are due, as indicated in § 103.23.
(c) If there is a transfer of any or all of the lender's ownership interest in the loan, the party receiving the ownership interest may be required to notify BIA, as indicated in §§ 103.28 and 103.29.
(d) If there is a default on the loan, the lender must notify BIA, as indicated in §§ 103.35 and 103.36.
(e) If the borrower ceases to qualify for a BIA-guaranteed or insured loan under § 103.25(b), the lender must promptly notify BIA even if the lender does not pursue default remedies under §§ 103.35 and 103.36. This notice allows BIA to eliminate the guaranty or insurance coverage from its active recordkeeping system.
(f) If the loan is prepaid in full, the lender must promptly notify BIA in writing so that BIA can eliminate the guaranty or insurance coverage from its active recordkeeping system.
(g) If a lender changes its name, it should notify BIA in accordance with § 103.11(c).
§ 103.34
What if the lender and borrower decide to change the terms of the loan?
(a) The lender must obtain written BIA approval before modifying a loan guaranteed or insured under the Program, if the change will:
(1) Increase the borrower's outstanding principal amount (if a term loan), or maximum available credit (if a revolving loan).
(i) BIA will approve or disapprove a loan increase based upon the lender's explanation of the borrower's need for additional funding, and updated information of the sort required under §§ 103.12, 103.13, and 103.26, as applicable.
(ii) Upon approval by BIA and payment of an additional guaranty or insurance premium in accordance with §§ 103.8 and 103.19 and this section, the entire outstanding loan amount, as modified, will be guaranteed or insured (as the case may be) to the extent BIA specifies. The lender must pay the additional premium only on the increase in the outstanding principal amount of the loan (if a term loan) or the increase in the credit limit available to the borrower (if a revolving loan).
(iii) Lenders may not increase the outstanding principal amount of a loan guaranteed or insured under the Program if a significant purpose of doing so would be to allow the borrower to pay accrued loan interest it otherwise would have difficulty paying.
(2) Permanently adjust the loan repayment schedule.
(3) Increase a fixed interest rate, convert a fixed interest rate to an adjustable interest rate, or convert an adjustable interest rate to a fixed interest rate.
(4) Allow any changes in the identity or organizational structure of the borrower.
(5) Allow any material change in the use of loan proceeds or the nature of the borrower's business.
(6) Release any collateral taken as security for the loan, except items sold
in the ordinary course of business and promptly replaced by similar items of collateral, such as inventory.
(7) Allow the borrower to move any significant portion of its business operations to a location that is not on or near an Indian reservation or tribal service area recognized by BIA.
(8) Be likely to materially increase the risk of a claim on BIA's guaranty or insurance coverage, or materially reduce the aggregate value of the collateral securing the loan.
(9) Cure a default for which BIA is to receive notice under § 103.35(b).
(b) In the case of an insured loan, the amount of which will not exceed $100,000 when combined with all other insured loans from the lender to the borrower, the lender need not obtain BIA's prior approval to make any of the loan modifications indicated in § 103.34(a), except as provided in § 103.21(b). However, all loan modifications must remain consistent with the lender's loan insurance agreement with BIA, and in the event of an increase in the borrower's outstanding principal amount (if a term loan), or maximum available credit (if a revolving loan), the lender must send BIA an additional premium payment in accordance with §§ 103.8, 103.19 and this section. The lender must pay the additional premium only on the increase in the outstanding principal amount of the loan (if a term loan) or the increase in the credit limit available to the borrower (if a revolving loan). To the extent a loan modification changes any of the information supplied to BIA under § 103.18(b)(3), the lender also must promptly notify BIA of the new information.
(c) Subject to any applicable BIA loan guaranty or insurance coverage conditions, a lender may extend additional loans to a borrower without BIA approval, if the additional loans are not to be guaranteed or insured under the Program.

# Subpart G—Default and Payment by BIA
§ 103.35
What must the lender do if the borrower defaults on the loan?
(a) The lender must send written notice of the default to the borrower, and otherwise meet the standard of care established for the lender in this part. The lender's notice to the borrower should be sent as soon as possible after the default, but in any event before the lender's notice to BIA under paragraph (b) of this section. For purposes of the Program, “default” will mean a default as defined in this part.
(b) The lender also must send written notice of the default to BIA by certified mail (return receipt requested), or by a nationally-recognized overnight delivery service (signature of recipient required) within 60 calendar days of the default, unless the default is fully cured before that deadline. This notice is required even if the lender grants the borrower a forbearance under § 103.36(a). One purpose of the notice is to give BIA the opportunity to intervene and seek assistance for the borrower, even though BIA has no duty, either to the lender or the borrower, to do so. Another purpose of the notice is to permit BIA to plan for a possible loss claim from the lender, under § 103.36(d). The lender's notice must clearly indicate:
(1) The identity of the borrower;
(2) The applicable Program guaranty certificate or insurance agreement number;
(3) The date and nature of all bases for default;
(4) If a monetary default, the amount of past due principal and interest, the date through which interest has been calculated, and the amount of any late fees, precautionary advances, or other amounts the lender claims;
(5) The nature and outcome of any correspondence or other contacts with the borrower concerning the default; and
(6) The precise nature of any action the borrower could take to cure the default.
§ 103.36
What options and remedies does the lender have if the borrower defaults on the loan?
(a) The lender may grant the borrower a temporary forbearance, even beyond any default cure periods specified in the loan documents, if doing so
is likely to result in the borrower curing the default. However, BIA must approve in writing any forbearance or other agreement that:
(1) Permanently modifies the terms of the loan in any manner indicated by § 103.34(a);
(2) Would allow the borrower's default to extend beyond the deadline established in § 103.36(d) for the lender to elect a remedy; or
(3) Is not likely to result in the borrower curing the default.
(b) The lender may make precautionary advances on the borrower's behalf during the default, if doing so is reasonably necessary to ensure that loan recovery prospects do not significantly deteriorate. Items for which the lender may make precautionary advances include, for example:
(1) Hazard, liability, or key man life insurance premiums;
(2) Security measures to safeguard abandoned business assets;
(3) Real or personal property taxes;
(4) Corrective actions required by court or administrative orders; or
(5) Essential maintenance.
(c) BIA will guaranty or insure the amount of precautionary advances from the date of each advance to the same extent as other amounts due under the loan, if:
(1) The borrower has demonstrated its inability or unwillingness to make the payment or perform the duty that jeopardizes loan recovery, including by undue delay in making the payment or performing the duty;
(2) The total expense of all precautionary advances by the lender does not at the time of the advance exceed 10 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the loan;
(3) Where loan document provisions do not require the borrower to repay precautionary advances (however termed) when made by the lender, or where the total expense of all precautionary advances by the lender will exceed 10 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the loan when made, the lender secures BIA's prior written approval; and
(4) The lender properly claims and documents all precautionary advances, if and when it submits a claim for loss under § 103.37.
(d) If the default remains uncured, the lender must send BIA a written notice by certified mail (return receipt requested), or by a nationally-recognized overnight delivery service (signature of recipient required) within 90 calendar days of the default to select one of the following remedies:
(1) In the case of a guaranteed loan, the lender may submit a claim to BIA for its loss;
(2) In the case of either a guaranteed or insured loan, the lender may liquidate all collateral securing the loan, and upon completion, if it has a residual loss on the loan, it may submit a claim to BIA for that loss; or
(3) The lender may negotiate a loan modification agreement with the borrower to permanently change the terms of the loan in a manner that will cure the default. If the lender chooses this remedy, it may take no longer than 45 calendar days from the date BIA receives the notice of remedy selection to finalize a loan modification agreement and secure BIA's written approval of it, unless BIA specifically extends this deadline in writing. However, the lender may at any time before the expiration of the 45-day period (or any extension thereof) change its choice of remedy by sending BIA a notice otherwise complying with § 103.36(d)(1) or (2). If the lender fails to send BIA a notice changing its choice of remedy and does not finalize an approved loan modification agreement within the 45-day period (or any extension thereof), the lender's only permissible remedy under the Program will be to pursue the procedure specified in § 103.36(d)(2).
(e) Failure by the lender to provide BIA with notice of the lender's election of remedy within 90 calendar days of the default, as indicated in § 103.36(d), will invalidate BIA's loan guaranty certificate or insurance coverage for that particular loan, absent an express waiver of this provision by BIA. BIA may preserve the validity of a loan guaranty certificate or insurance coverage through waiver of this provision only when BIA determines, in its discretion, that:
(1) The lender consistently has acted in good faith, and
(2) The lender's failure to provide timely notice either:
(i) Has not caused any actual or potential prejudice to BIA; or
(ii) Was the result of the lender relying upon specific written advice from a BIA official.
§ 103.37
What must the lender do to collect payment under its loan guaranty certificate or loan insurance coverage?
(a) For guaranteed loans, the lender must submit a claim for its loss on a form approved by BIA.
(1) If the lender makes an immediate claim under § 103.36(d)(1), it must send BIA the claim for loss within 90 calendar days of the default by certified mail (return receipt requested), or by a nationally-recognized overnight delivery service (signature of recipient required). The lender's claim for loss may include interest that has accrued on the outstanding principal amount of the loan only through the date it submits the claim.
(2) If the lender elects first to liquidate the collateral securing the loan under § 103.36(d)(2), and has a residual loss after doing so, it must send BIA the claim for loss within 30 calendar days of completing all liquidation efforts. The lender must perform collateral liquidation as expeditiously and thoroughly as is reasonably possible, within the standards established by this part. The lender's claim for loss may include interest that has accrued on the outstanding principal amount of the loan only through the earlier of:
(i) The date it submits the claim;
(ii) The date the lender gets a judgment of foreclosure or sale (or the non-judicial equivalent) on the principal collateral securing the loan; or
(iii) One hundred eighty calendar days after the date of the default.
(b) For insured loans, after liquidating all loan collateral, the lender must submit a claim for its loss (if any) on a form approved by BIA. The lender must send BIA the claim for loss by certified mail (return receipt requested), or by a nationally-recognized overnight delivery service (signature of recipient required) within 30 calendar days of completing all liquidation efforts. The lender must perform collateral liquidation as expeditiously and thoroughly as is reasonably possible, within the standards established by this part. The lender's claim for loss may include interest that has accrued on the outstanding principal amount of the loan through the earlier of:
(1) The date it submits the claim;
(2) The date the lender gets a judgment of foreclosure or sale (or the non-judicial equivalent) on the principal collateral securing the loan; or
(3) One hundred eighty calendar days after the date of the default.
(c) Whenever the lender liquidates loan collateral under § 103.36(d)(2), it must vigorously pursue all reasonable methods of collection concerning the loan collateral before submitting a claim for its residual loss (if any) to BIA. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, the lender must:
(1) Foreclose, either judicially or non-judicially, all rights of redemption the borrower or any co-maker or guarantor of the loan (other than BIA) may have in collateral under any mortgage securing the loan;
(2) Gather and dispose of all personal property pledged as collateral under the loan, in accordance with applicable law;
(3) Exercise all set-off rights the lender may have under contract or applicable law;
(4) Make demand for payment on the borrower, all co-makers, and all guarantors of the loan (other than BIA); and
(5) Participate fully in all bankruptcy proceedings that may arise involving the borrower and any co-maker or guarantor of the loan. Full participation might include, for example, filing a proof of claim in the case, attending creditors' meetings, and seeking a court order releasing the automatic stay of collection efforts so that the lender can liquidate affected loan collateral.
(d) BIA may require further information, including without limitation copies of any documents the lender is to maintain under § 103.32 and all documentation of liquidation efforts, to help BIA evaluate the lender's claim for loss.
(e) BIA will pay the lender the guaranteed or insured portion of the lender's claim for loss, to the extent the claim is based upon reasonably sufficient evidence of the loss and compliance with the requirements of this part. BIA will render a decision on a claim for loss within 90 days of receiving all information it requires to properly evaluate the loss.
§ 103.38
Is there anything else for BIA or the lender to do after BIA makes payment?
When BIA pays the lender on its claim for loss, the lender must sign and deliver to BIA an assignment of rights to its loan agreement with the borrower, in a document acceptable to BIA. Immediately upon payment, BIA is subrogated to all rights of the lender under the loan agreement with the borrower, and must pursue collection efforts against the borrower and any co-maker and guarantor, as required by law.
§ 103.39
When will BIA refuse to pay all or part of a lender's claim?
BIA may deny all or part of a lender's claim for loss when:
(a) The loan is not guaranteed or insured as indicated in § 103.18;
(b) The guarantee or insurance coverage has become invalid under §§ 103.28, 103.29, or 103.36(e);
(c) The lender has not met the standard of care indicated in § 103.30;
(d) The lender presents a claim for a residual loss after attempting to liquidate loan collateral, and:
(1) The lender has not made a reasonable effort to liquidate all security for the loan;
(2) The lender has taken an unreasonable amount of time to complete its liquidation efforts, the probable consequence of which has been to reduce overall prospects of loss recovery; or
(3) The lender's loss claim is inflated by unreasonable liquidation expenses or unjustifiable deductions from collateral liquidation proceeds applied to the loan balance; or
(e) The lender has otherwise failed in any material respect to follow the requirements of this part, and BIA can reasonably attribute some or all of the lender's loss to that failure.
§ 103.40
Will BIA make exceptions to its criteria for denying payment?
(a) BIA will not reduce or deny payment solely on the basis of §§ 103.39(c) or (e) when the lender making the claim for loss:
(1) Is a person to whom a previous lender transferred the loan under §§ 103.28 or 103.29 before maturity for value;
(2) Notified BIA of its acquisition of the loan interest as required by §§ 103.28 or 103.29;
(3) Had no involvement in or knowledge of the actions or circumstances that would have allowed BIA to reduce or deny payment to a previous lender; and
(4) Has not itself violated the standards set forth in §§ 103.39(c) or (e).
(b) If BIA makes payment to a lender under this section, it may seek reimbursement from the previous lender or lenders who contributed to the loss by violating §§ 103.39(c) or (e).
§ 103.41
What happens if a lender violates provisions of this part?
In addition to reducing or eliminating payment on a specific claim for loss, BIA may either temporarily suspend, or permanently bar, a lender from making or acquiring loans under the Program if the lender repeatedly fails to abide by the requirements of this part, or if the lender significantly violates the requirements of this part on any single occasion.
§ 103.42
How long must a lender comply with Program requirements?
(a) A lender must comply in general with Program requirements during:
(1) The effective period of its loan guaranty agreement or loan insurance agreement; and
(2) Whatever additional period is necessary to resolve any outstanding loan guaranty or insurance claims or coverage the lender may have.
(b) Except as otherwise required by law, a lender must maintain records with respect to a particular loan for 6 years after either:
(1) The loan is repaid in full; or
(2) The lender accepts payment from BIA for a loss on the loan, pursuant to a guaranty certificate or an insurance agreement.
(c) At any time 2 years or more following one of the events specified in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section, a lender may convert its records for corresponding loans to any electronic format that is readily retrievable and that provides an accurate, detailed image of the original records. Upon converting its records in this manner, the lender may dispose of its original loan records.
(d) This section does not restrict any claims BIA may have against the lender or any other party arising from the lender's participation in the Program.
§ 103.43
What must the lender do after repayment in full?
The lender must completely and promptly release of record all remaining collateral for a guaranteed or insured loan after the loan has been paid in full. The release must be at the lender's sole cost. In addition, if the loan is prepaid the lender must notify BIA in accordance with § 103.33(f).

# Subpart H—Definitions and Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 103.44
What certain terms mean in this part.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the United States Department of the Interior.
Default
means:
(1) The borrower's failure to make a scheduled loan payment when it is due;
(2) The borrower's failure to meet a material condition of the loan agreement;
(3) The borrower's failure to comply with any other condition, covenant or obligation under the terms of the loan agreement within applicable grace or cure periods;
(4) The borrower's failure to remain at least 51 percent Indian owned, as provided in § 103.25(b);
(5) The filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy listing the borrower as debtor;
(6) The imposition of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government lien on any assets of the borrower or assets otherwise used as collateral for the loan, except real property tax liens imposed by law to secure payments that are not yet due;
(7) Any default defined in the loan agreement, to the extent the definition is not inconsistent with this part.
Equity
means the value, after deducting all debt, of the borrower's tangible assets in the business being financed, on which a lender can perfect a first lien security interest. It can include cash, securities, or other cash equivalent instruments, but cannot include the value of contractual options, the right to pay below market rental rates, or similar rights if those rights:
(1) Are unassignable; or
(2) Can expire before maturity of the loan.
Indian
means a person who is a member of a tribe as defined in this part.
Loan agreement
means the collective terms and conditions under which the lender extends a loan to a borrower, as reflected by the documents that evidence the loan.
Mortgage
means a consensual lien on real or personal property in favor of the lender, given by the borrower or a co-maker or guarantor of the loan (other than BIA), to secure loan repayment. The term “mortgage” includes “deed of trust.”
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
Person
means any individual or distinct legal entity.
Program
means the BIA's Loan Guaranty, Insurance, and Interest Subsidy Program, established under 25 U.S.C. 1481
et seq.,
25 U.S.C. 1511
et seq.,
and this part 103.
Reservation
means any land that is an Indian reservation, California rancheria, public domain Indian allotment, pueblo, Indian colony, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, or land held by an Alaska Native corporation under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Interior, or his authorized representative.
Tribe
means any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, rancheria, village, community or corporation that the Secretary acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe, and that is eligible for services from BIA.
§ 103.45
Information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements of §§ 103.11, 103.12, 103.13, 103.14, 103.17, 103.21, 103.23, 103.26, 103.32, 103.33, 103.34, 103.35, 103.36, 103.37, and 103.38 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
and assigned approval number 1076-0020. The information will be used to approve and make payments on Federal loan guarantees, insurance agreements, and interest subsidy awards. Response is required to obtain a benefit.
(b) The burden on the public to report this information is estimated to average from 15 minutes to 2 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the information collection. Direct comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this information collection to the Information Collection Control Officer, Bureau of Indian Affairs, MS 4613, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240.
Pt. 111

# PART 111—ANNUITY AND OTHER PER CAPITA PAYMENTS
Sec.
111.1
Persons to share payments.
111.2
Enrolling non-full-blood children.
111.3
Payments by check.
111.4
Election of shareholders.
111.5
Future payments.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
22 FR 10549, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 111.1
Persons to share payments.
In making all annuity and other per capita payments, the funds shall be equally divided among the Indians entitled thereto share and share alike. The roll for such payments should be prepared on Form 5-322,
1
in strict alphabetical order by families of husband, wife, and unmarried dependent minor children. Unless otherwise instructed,
1
Forms may be obtained from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Washington, D.C.
(a) Indians of both sexes may be considered adults at the age of 18 years;
(b) Deceased enrollees may be carried on the rolls for one payment after death;
(c) Where final rolls have been prepared constituting the legal membership of the tribe, only Indians whose names appear thereon are entitled to share in future payments, after-born children being excluded and the shares of deceased enrollees paid to the heirs if determined or if not determined credited to the estate pending determination; and
(d) The shares of competent Indians will be paid to them directly and the shares of incompetents and minors deposited for expenditure under the individual Indian money regulations.

# Cross References:
For regulations pertaining to the determination of heirs and approval of wills, see part 15 and subpart G of part 11 of this chapter. For individual Indian money regulations, see part 115 of this chapter.
§ 111.2
Enrolling non-full-blood children.
Where an Indian woman was married to a white man prior to June 7, 1897, and was at the time of her marriage a recognized member of the tribe even though she left it after marriage and lived away from the reservation, the children of such a marriage should be enrolled—and, also in the case of an Indian woman married to a white man subsequent to the above date but who still maintains her affiliation with the tribe and she and her children are recognized members thereof; however, where an Indian woman by marriage with a white man after June 7, 1897, has, in effect, withdrawn from the tribe and is no longer identified with it, her children should not be enrolled. In case of doubt all the facts should be submitted to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Washington, D.C., for a decision.
§ 111.3
Payments by check.
All payments should be made by check. In making payments to competent Indians, each check should be drawn to the order of the enrollee and given or sent directly to him. Powers of attorney and orders given by an Indian to another person for his share in
a payment will not be recognized. Superintendents will note in the “Remarks” column on the roll the date of birth of each new enrollee and the date of death of deceased annuitants.
§ 111.4
Election of shareholders.
An Indian holding equal rights in two or more tribes can share in payments to only one of them and will be required to elect with which tribe he wishes to be enrolled and to relinquish in writing his claims to payments to the other. In the case of a minor the election will be made by the parent or guardian.
§ 111.5
Future payments.
Indians who have received or applied for their pro rata shares of an interest-bearing tribal fund under the act of March 2, 1907 (34 Stat. 1221; 25 U.S.C. 119, 121), as amended by the act of May 18, 1916 (39 Stat. 128), will not be permitted to participate in future payments made from the accumulated interest.
PART 114—SPECIAL DEPOSITS [RESERVED]
Pt. 115

# PART 115—TRUST FUNDS FOR TRIBES AND INDIVIDUAL INDIANS

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Public Information
Sec.
115.001
What is the purpose of this part?
115.002
What definitions do I need to know?

# Subpart B—IIM Accounts
115.100
Osage Agency.
115.101
Individual accounts.
115.102
Adults under legal disability.
115.103
Payments by other Federal agencies.
115.104
Restrictions.
115.105
Funds of deceased Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes.
115.106
Assets of members of the Agua Caliente Band of Mission Indians.
115.107
Appeals.

# Subpart C—IIM Accounts: Minors
115.400
Will a minor's IIM account always be supervised?
115.401
What is a minor's supervised account?
115.402
Will a minor have access to information about his or her account?
115.403
Who will receive information regarding a minor's supervised account?
115.404
What information will be provided in a minor's statement of performance?
115.405
How frequently will a minor's statement of performance be mailed?
115.406
Who provides an address of record for a minor's supervised account?
115.407
How is an address of record for a minor's supervised account changed?
115.408
May a minor's supervised account have more than one address on file with the BIA?
115.409
How is an address for a minor's residence changed?
115.410
What types of identification will the BIA or OTFM accept as “verifiable photo identification”?
115.411
What if the individual making a request regarding a minor's supervised account does not have any verifiable photo identification?
115.412
Will child support payments be accepted for deposit into a minor's supervised account?
115.413
Who may receive funds from a minor's supervised account?
115.414
What is an authorized disbursement request?
115.415
How will an authorized disbursement from a minor's supervised account be sent?
115.416
Will the United States post office forward mail regarding a minor's supervised account to a forwarding address left with the United States post office?
115.417
What portion of funds in a minor's supervised account may be withdrawn under a distribution plan?
115.418
What types of trust funds may a minor have?
115.419
Who develops a minor's distribution plan?
115.420
When developing a minor's distribution plan, what information must be considered and included in the evaluation?
115.421
What information will be included in the copy of the minor's distribution plan that will be provided to OTFM?
115.422
As a custodial parent, the legal guardian, the person who BIA has recognized as having control and custody of the minor, or an emancipated minor, what are your responsibilities if you receive trust funds from a minor's supervised account?
115.423
If you are a custodial parent, a legal guardian, or an emancipated minor, may BIA authorize the disbursement of funds from a minor's supervised account without your knowledge?
115.424
Who receives a copy of the BIA-approved distribution plan and any amendments to the plan?
115.425
What will we do if we find that a distribution plan has not been followed or
an individual has acted improperly in regard to his or her duties involving a minor's trust funds?
115.426
What is the BIA's responsibility regarding the management of a minor's supervised account?
115.427
What is the BIA's annual review process for a minor's supervised account?
115.428
Will you automatically receive all of your trust funds when you reach the age of 18?
115.429
What do you need to do when you reach 18 years of age to access your trust funds?
115.430
Will your account lose its supervised status when you reach the age of 18?
115.431
If you are an emancipated minor may you withdraw trust funds from your account?

# Subpart D—IIM Accounts: Estate Accounts
115.500
When is an estate account established?
115.501
How long will an estate account remain open?
115.502
Who inherits the money in an IIM account when an account holder dies?
115.503
May money in an IIM account be withdrawn after the death of an account holder but prior to the end of the probate proceedings?
115.504
If you have a life estate interest in income-producing trust assets, how will you receive the income?

# Subpart E—IIM Accounts: Hearing Process for Restricting an IIM Account
115.600
If BIA decides to restrict your IIM account under § 115.102 or § 115.104, what procedures must the BIA follow?
115.601
Under what circumstances may the BIA restrict your IIM account through supervision or an encumbrance?
115.602
How will the BIA notify you or your guardian, as applicable, of its decision to restrict your IIM account?
115.603
What happens if BIA's notice of its decision to place a restriction on your IIM account that is sent by United States certified mail is returned to the BIA as undeliverable for any reason?
115.604
When will BIA authorize OTFM to place a restriction on your IIM account?
115.605
What information will the BIA include in its notice of the decision to restrict your IIM account?
115.606
What happens if you do not request a hearing to challenge BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account during the allotted time period?
115.607
How do you request a hearing to challenge the BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account?
115.608
If you request a hearing to challenge BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account, when will BIA conduct the hearing?
115.609
Will you be allowed to present testimony and/or evidence at the hearing?
115.610
Will you be allowed to present witnesses during a hearing?
115.611
Will you be allowed to question opposing witnesses during a hearing?
115.612
May you be represented by an attorney during your hearing?
115.613
Will the BIA record the hearing?
115.614
Why is the BIA hearing recorded?
115.615
How long after the hearing will BIA make its final decision?
115.616
What information will be included in BIA's final decision?
115.617
What happens when the BIA decides to supervise or encumber your IIM account after your hearing?
115.618
What happens if at the conclusion of the notice and hearing process we decide to encumber your IIM account because of an administrative error which resulted in funds that you do not own being deposited in your account or distributed to you or to a third party on your behalf?
115.619
If the BIA decides that the restriction on your IIM account will be continued after your hearing, do you have the right to appeal that decision?
115.620
If you decide to appeal the BIA's final decision pursuant to § 115.107, will the BIA restrict your IIM account during the appeal?

# Subpart F—Trust Fund Accounts: General Information
115.700
Why is money held in trust for tribes and individual Indians?
115.701
What types of accounts are maintained for Indian trust funds?
115.702
What specific sources of money will be accepted for deposit into a trust account?
115.703
May we accept for deposit into a trust account money not specified in § 115.702?
115.704
May we accept for deposit into a trust account retirement checks/payments or pension fund checks/payments even though those funds are not specified in § 115.702?
115.705
May we accept for deposit into a trust account money awarded or assessed by a court of competent jurisdiction?
115.706
When funds are awarded or assessed by a court of competent jurisdiction in a cause of action involving trust assets, what documentation is required to deposit the trust funds into a trust account?
115.707
Will the Secretary accept administrative fees for deposit into a trust account?
115.708
How quickly will trust funds received by the Secretary on behalf of
tribes or individual Indians be deposited into a trust account?
115.709
Will an annual audit be conducted on trust funds?

# Investments and Interests
115.710
Does money in a trust account earn interest?
115.711
How is money in a trust account invested?
115.712
What is the interest rate earned on money in a trust account?
115.713
When does money in a trust account start earning interest?

# Subpart G—Tribal Accounts
115.800
When does OTFM open a tribal account?
115.801
How often will a tribe receive information about its trust account(s)?
115.802
May a tribe make a request to OTFM to receive information about its trust account more frequently?
115.803
What information will be provided in a statement of performance?
115.804
Will we account to a tribe for those trust funds the tribe receives through direct pay?
115.805
If a tribe is paid directly under a contract for the sale or use of trust assets, will we accept those trust funds for deposit into a tribal trust account?
115.806
How will the BIA assist in the administration of tribal judgment fund accounts?

# Investing and Managing Tribal Trust Funds
115.807
Will OTFM consult with tribes about investments of tribal trust funds?
115.808
Could trust fund investments made by OTFM lose money?
115.809
May a tribe recommend to OTFM how to invest the tribe's trust funds?
115.810
May a tribe directly invest and manage its trust funds?
115.811
Under what conditions may a tribe redeposit funds with OTFM that were previously withdrawn under the Trust Reform Act?
115.812
Is a tribe responsible for its expenditures of trust funds that are not made in compliance with statutory language or other federal law?
115.813
Is there a limit to the amount of trust funds OTFM will disburse from a tribal trust account?
115.814
If a tribe withdraws money from its trust account for a particular purpose or project, may the tribe redeposit any money that was not used for its intended purpose?

# Withdrawing Tribal Trust Funds
115.815
How does a tribe request trust funds from a tribal trust account?
115.816
May a tribe's request for a withdrawal of trust funds from its trust account be delayed or denied?
115.817
How does OTFM disburse money to a tribe?

# Unclaimed Per Capita Funds
115.818
What happens if an Indian adult does not cash his or her per capita check?
115.819
What steps will be taken to locate an individual whose per capita check is returned as undeliverable or not cashed within twelve (12) months of issuance?
115.820
May OTFM transfer money in a returned per capita account to a tribal account?

# Subpart H—Special Deposit Accounts
115.900
Who receives the interest earned on trust funds in a special deposit account?
115.901
When will the trust funds in a special deposit account be credited or paid out to the owner of the funds?
115.902
May administrative or land conveyance fees paid as federal reimbursements be deposited in a special deposit account?
115.903
May cash bonds (e.g., performance bonds, appeal bonds, etc.) be deposited into a special deposit account?
115.904
Where earnest money is paid prior to Secretarial approval of a conveyance or contract instrument involving trust assets, may the BIA deposit that earnest money into a special deposit account?

# Subpart I—Records
115.1000
Who owns the records associated with this part?
115.1001
How must records associated with this part be preserved?

# Authority:
R.S. 441, as amended, R.S. 463, R.S. 465; 5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2; 25 U.S.C. 9; 43 U.S.C. 1457; 25 U.S.C. 4001; 25 U.S.C. 161(a); 25 U.S.C. 162a; 25 U.S.C. 164; Pub. L. 87-283; Pub. L. 97-100; Pub. L. 97-257; Pub. L. 103-412; Pub. L. 97-458; 44 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.

# Source:
66 FR 7094, Jan. 22, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Public Information
§ 115.001
What is the purpose of this part?
This part sets forth guidelines for the Secretary of the Interior, including any tribe or tribal organization if that entity is administering specific programs, functions, services or activities,
previously administered by the Secretary of the Interior, but now authorized under a Self-Determination Act contract (pursuant to 25 U.S.C. § 450f) or a Self-Governance compact (pursuant to 25 U.S.C. § 558cc), to carry out the trust duties owed to tribes and individual Indians to manage and administer trust assets for the exclusive benefit of tribal and individual Indian beneficiaries pursuant to federal law, including the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994, Public Law 103-412, 108 Stat. 4239, 25 U.S.C. § 4001 (Trust Reform Act).
§ 115.002
What definitions do I need to know?
As used in this part:
Account holder
means a tribe or a person who owns the funds in a tribal or Individual Indian Money (IIM) account that is maintained by the Secretary.
Account
means a record of trust funds that is maintained by the Secretary for the benefit of a tribe or a person.
Administratively restricted account
means an IIM account that is placed on temporary hold by OTFM where an account holder's current address of record is unknown or where more documentation is needed to make a distribution from an account.
Adult
means an individual who has reached 18 years of age, except when the individual's tribe has determined the age for adulthood to be older than 18 for access to tribal trust fund per capita proceeds.
Adult in need of assistance
means an individual who has been determined to be “incapable of managing or administering his or her property, including his or her financial affairs” either (a) through a BIA administrative process that is based on a finding by a licensed medical professional or licensed mental health professional, or (b) by an order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, or its authorized representative.
Bond
means security for the performance of certain obligations or a guaranty of such performance as furnished by a third-party surety. As used in this part, bonds may include cash bonds, performance bonds, and surety bonds.
Court of competent jurisdiction
means a federal or tribal court with jurisdiction; however, if there is no tribal court with jurisdiction, then a state court with jurisdiction.
Day
means a calendar day unless otherwise specified.
Department
means the Department of the Interior or its authorized representative.
Deposits
mean receiving funds, ordinarily through a Federal Reserve Bank, for credit to a trust fund account.
Emancipated minor
means a person under 18 years of age who is married or who is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be legally able to care for himself or herself.
Encumber or encumbrance
means to attach trust assets held by the Secretary with a claim, lien, or charge that has been approved by the Secretary.
Encumbered account
means a trust fund account where some portion of the proceeds are obligated to another party.
Estate account
means an account for a deceased IIM account holder.
FOIA
means the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552.
Guardian
means a person who is legally responsible for the care and management of an individual and his or her estate. This definition includes, but is not limited to, conservator or guardian of the property. However, this definition does not apply to property subject to § 115.106 of this part.
Individual Indian Money (IIM) accounts
means an interest bearing account for trust funds held by the Secretary that belong to a person who has an interest in trust assets. These accounts are under the control and management of the Secretary. There are three types of IIM accounts: unrestricted, restricted, and estate accounts.
Legal disability
means the lack of legal capability to perform an act which includes the ability to manage or administer his or her financial affairs as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or another federal agency where the federal agency has determined that the adult requires a representative payee and there is no
legal guardian to receive federal benefits on his or her behalf.
MSW
means a Master of Social Work degree from an accredited college or university.
Minor
means an individual who is not an adult as defined in this part.
Non-compos mentis
means a person who has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be of unsound mind or incapable of managing his or her own affairs.
OST
means the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior, or its authorized representative.
OTFM
means the Office of Trust Funds Management, within the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior, or its authorized representative.
Privacy Act
means the Federal Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.
Restricted fee land(s)
means land the title to which is held by an individual Indian or a tribe and which can only be alienated or encumbered by the owner with the approval of the Secretary because of limitations contained in the conveyance instrument pursuant to federal law.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative; it also means a tribe or tribal organization if that entity is administering specific programs, functions, services or activities, previously administered by the Secretary of the Interior, but now authorized under a Self-Determination Act contract (pursuant to 25 U.S.C. § 450f) or a Self-Governance compact (pursuant to 25 U.S.C. § 558cc).
Special deposit account
means a temporary account for the deposit of trust funds that cannot immediately be credited to the rightful account holders.
Supervised account
means a restricted IIM account, from which all disbursements must be approved by the BIA, that is maintained for minors, emancipated minors, adults who are in need of assistance, adults who under legal disability, or adults who are non-compos mentis.
Tribal account or tribal trust account
generally means a trust fund account for a federally recognized tribe that is maintained and held in trust by the Secretary.
Tribe
means any Indian tribe, nation, band, pueblo, rancheria, colony, or community, including any Alaska Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act which is federally recognized by the United States government for special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians. Tribe also means two or more tribes joined for any purpose, the joint assets of which include funds held in trust by the Secretary.
Trust account
means a tribal account, an IIM account, or a special deposit account for trust funds maintained by the Secretary.
Trust assets
mean trust lands, natural resources, trust funds, or other assets held by the federal government in trust for Indian tribes and individual Indians.
Trust funds
means money derived from the sale or use of trust lands, restricted fee lands, or trust resources and any other money that the Secretary must accept into trust.
Trust land(s)
means any tract or interest therein, that the United States holds in trust status for the benefit of a tribe or an individual Indian.
Trust Reform Act
means the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-412, 108 Stat. 4239, 25 U.S.C. § 4001.
Trust resources
means any element or matter directly derived from Indian trust property.
Unrestricted account
means an IIM account in which an Indian account holder may determine the timing and amount of disbursements from the account.
Voluntary hold
means a request by an individual Indian with an unrestricted IIM account to keep his or her trust funds in a trust account instead of having the trust funds automatically disbursed.
We
or
Us
or
Our
means the Secretary as defined in this part.
You
or
Your
means an IIM account holder.

# Subpart B—IIM Accounts
§ 115.100
Osage Agency.
The provisions of this part do not apply to funds the deposit or expenditure of which is subject to the provisions of part 117 of this subchapter.
§ 115.101
Individual accounts.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, adults shall have the right to withdraw funds from their accounts. Upon their application, or an application made in their behalf by the Secretary or his authorized representative, their funds shall be disbursed to them. All such disbursements will be made at such convenient times and places as the Secretary or his authorized representatives may designate.
§ 115.102
Adults under legal disability.
The funds of an adult who is non compos mentis or under other legal disability may be disbursed for his benefit for such purposes deemed to be for his best interest and welfare, or the funds may be disbursed to a legal guardian or curator under such conditions as the Secretary or his authorized representative may prescribe.
§ 115.103
Payments by other Federal agencies.
Moneys received from the Veterans Administration or other Government agency pursuant to the Act of February 25, 1933 (47 Stat. 907; 25 U.S.C. 14), may be accepted and administered for the benefit of adult Indians under legal disability or minors for whom no legal guardian or fiduciary has been appointed.
§ 115.104
Restrictions.
Funds of individuals may be applied by the Secretary or his authorized representative against delinquent claims of indebtedness to the United States or any of its agencies or to the tribe of which the individual is a member, unless such payments are prohibited by acts of Congress, and against money judgments rendered by courts of Indian offenses or under any tribal law and order code. Funds derived from the sale of capital assets which by agreement approved prior to such sale by the Secretary or his authorized representative are to be expended for specific purposes, and funds obligated under contractual arrangements approved in advance by the Secretary or his authorized representative or subject to deductions specifically authorized or directed by acts of Congress, shall be disbursed only in accordance with the agreements (including any subsequently approved modifications thereof) or acts of Congress. The funds of an adult whom the Secretary or his authorized representative finds to be in need of assistance in managing his affairs, even though such adult is not non compos mentis or under other legal disability, may be disbursed to the adult, within his best interest, under approved plans. Such finding and the basis for such finding shall be recorded and filed with the records of the account. For rules governing the payment of judgments from individual Indian money accounts, see § 11.208 of this chapter.
§ 115.105
Funds of deceased Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes.
Funds of a deceased Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes may be disbursed to pay ad valorem and personal property taxes, Federal and State estate and income taxes, obligations approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative prior to death of decedent, expenses of last sickness and burial and claims found to be just and reasonable which are not barred by the statute of limitations, costs of determining heirs to restricted property by the State courts, and claims allowed pursuant to part 16 of this chapter.
§ 115.106
Assets of members of the Agua Caliente Band of Mission Indians.
(a) The provisions of this section apply to money or other property, except real property, held by the United States in trust for such Indians, which may be used, advanced, expended, exchanged, deposited, disposed of, invested, and reinvested by the Director, Palm Springs Office, in accordance with the Act of October 17, 1968 (Pub. L. 90-597). The management or disposition of real property is covered in other parts of this chapter.
(b) Investments made by the Director, Palm Springs Office, under the Act of October 17, 1968, supra, shall be of such a nature as will afford reasonable protection of the assets of the individual Indian involved. The Director is authorized to enter into contracts for the management of the assets (except real property) of individual Indians. The consent of the individual Indian concerned must be obtained prior to the taking of actions affecting his assets, unless the Director determines, under the provisions of section (e) of the Act, that consent is not required.
(c) The Director may, consistent with normal business practices, establish appropriate fees for reports he requires from guardians, conservators, or other fiduciaries appointed under State law for members of the Band.
§ 115.107
Appeals.
Appeals from an action taken by an official of the Bureau of Indian Affairs may be taken pursuant to 25 CFR part 2, subject to the terms of subpart E.

# Subpart C—IIM Accounts: Minors
§ 115.400
Will a minor's IIM account always be supervised?
Yes, all IIM accounts established by BIA for minors will be a supervised by the BIA.
§ 115.401
What is a minor's supervised account?
A minor's supervised account is a restricted IIM account from which all disbursements must be made pursuant to a distribution plan approved by the BIA that is established for:
(a) A minor, or
(b) An emancipated minor.
§ 115.402
Will a minor have access to information about his or her account?
A minor will not have access to information about his or her IIM account without approval of the custodial parent(s) or legal guardian. However, an emancipated minor will have access to information about his or her IIM account.
§ 115.403
Who will receive information regarding a minor's supervised account?
(a) The parent(s) with legal custody of the minor or the minor's legal guardian will receive a minor's statement of performance at the address of record for the minor's supervised account.
(b) An emancipated minor will receive his or her statement of performance at the address of record for the minor's supervised account.
§ 115.404
What information will be provided in a minor's statement of performance?
A minor's statement of performance will identify the source, type, and status of the funds deposited and held in the account; the beginning balance; the gains and losses; receipts and disbursements, if any; and the ending balance of the quarterly statement period for the minor's supervised account.
§ 115.405
How frequently will a minor's statement of performance be mailed?
We will mail a minor's statement of performance to the address of record quarterly, within and no later than 20 business days after the close of the quarterly statement period.
§ 115.406
Who provides an address of record for a minor's supervised account?
(a) The custodial parent or the legal guardian must provide an address to the BIA and this address will be the address of record for the minor's supervised account. Where applicable, a parent or legal guardian must provide a copy of the custodial order or guardianship order from a court of competent jurisdiction when providing the address of record for the minor's supervised IIM account.
(b) The emancipated minor must provide his or her address of record to the BIA.
(c) Upon receipt of the change of address of record from the parent or legal guardian, the BIA must provide the change of the address of record to the OTFM.
§ 115.407
How is an address of record for a minor's supervised account changed?
(a) To change an address of record for a minor's supervised IIM account, a custodial parent(s), legal guardian, or emancipated minor must provide BIA with the following information:
(1) The minor's or emancipated minor's name;
(2) The name of the custodial parent(s) or legal guardian, if applicable;
(3) A custody order from a court of competent jurisdiction or a copy of a guardianship, if applicable;
(4) The new address of the custodial parent(s), legal guardian, or emancipated minor; and
(5) The signature, mark or thumb print of a custodial parent, legal guardian, or emancipated minor that has been notarized by a notary public and/or witnessed by a DOI employee who has been shown verifiable photo identification. See § 115.410
(b) When requesting a change of an address of record, the following information will further assist us to identify the minor's account:
(1) The minor's or emancipated minor's IIM account number;
(2) The minor's or emancipated minor's date of birth;
(3) The minor's or emancipated minor's tribal enrollment number; and
(4) The minor's or emancipated minor's social security number.
§ 115.408
May a minor's supervised account have more than one address on file with the BIA?
Yes, a minor's supervised account may have more than one address on file with the BIA. We request that the parent, legal guardian, or the person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor, notify us of the following addresses for the minor:
(a) The minor's residence;
(b) The address of record where the statement of performance will be mailed;
(c) The address where disbursement checks will be mailed or financial institution information for direct deposits of trust funds as authorized under an approved distribution plan.
§ 115.409
How is an address for a minor's residence changed?
(a) To change an address for a minor's residence, the custodial parent, legal guardian, or the person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor must provide BIA with the following information:
(1) The minor's name;
(2) The name of the custodial parent(s) or legal guardian;
(3) A copy of a custodial order from a court of competent jurisdiction or a guardianship order, where applicable;
(4) The new address of the minor's residence; and
(5) The signature, mark or thumb print of the individual who is providing the updated address for the minor's residence that has been notarized by a notary public and/or witnessed by a DOI employee who has been shown verifiable photo identification. See § 115.410
(b) When requesting a change of an address for a minor's residence, the following information will further assist us to identify the minor's account:
(1) The minor's IIM account number;
(2) The minor's date of birth;
(3) The minor's tribal enrollment number (if known); and
(4) The minor's social security number (where known).
§ 115.410
What types of identification will the BIA or OTFM accept as “verifiable photo identification”?
BIA or OTFM will accept the following forms of identification as “verifiable photo identification”:
(a) A valid driver's license;
(b) A government-issued photo identification card, such as a passport, security badge, etc.; or
(c) A tribal photo identification card.
§ 115.411
What if the individual making a request regarding a minor's supervised account does not have any verifiable photo identification?
If the individual making a request regarding a minor's supervised account does not have any verifiable photo identification, the individual may make a request in person at the BIA and we will talk with the individual and review information in the minor's
file to see if we can attest to the individual's identity. If we cannot establish the identity of the individual, we will not accept the request.
§ 115.412
Will child support payments be accepted for deposit into a minor's supervised account?
The Secretary will not accept child support payments for deposit into a minor's supervised account.
§ 115.413
Who may receive funds from a minor's supervised account?
A custodial parent, a legal guardian, a person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor, or an emancipated minor may be eligible to withdraw funds from a minor's supervised account if there is an authorized disbursement request that is based upon the terms of a BIA-approved distribution plan.
§ 115.414
What is an authorized disbursement request?
An authorized disbursement request is the form or letter that must be approved by the BIA that specifies the funds to be disbursed from an IIM account. The authorized disbursement request may not be issued to disburse funds from a minor's supervised account unless an approved distribution plan exists, the amount to be disbursed is in conformity with the distribution plan and the disbursement will be made to an individual or third party specified in the plan.
§ 115.415
How will an authorized disbursement from a minor's supervised account be sent?
OTFM will make an authorized disbursement based on the approved distribution plan from a minor's supervised account by:
(a) Making a direct deposit to a specified account at a financial institution (a direct deposit into the specified account will eliminate lost, stolen or damaged checks and will also eliminate delays associated with mailing the check);
(b) Mailing a check to the address of record or to a specified disbursement address; or
(c) Mailing a check to a specified third party's address.
§ 115.416
Will the United States post office forward mail regarding a minor's supervised account to a forwarding address left with the United States post office?
(a) Federal law does not allow the United States post office to forward checks that are issued by the federal government. Therefore, a check from a minor's supervised account will not be forwarded to an address left with the United States post office. The new address of record must be provided directly to BIA.
(b) Where a forwarding address has been provided to the United States post office, the United States post office will forward a statement of performance and general correspondence regarding a minor's supervised account that is mailed to the minor's address of record for a limited time period. However, it is the responsibility of a custodial parent, legal guardian, or emancipated minor to give BIA the new address of record for the minor's supervised account.
§ 115.417
What portion of funds in a minor's supervised account may be withdrawn under a distribution plan?
Trust money in a minor's supervised account will not be distributed without a review of other resources that may be available to meet the needs of the minor. Any trust funds of a minor that are distributed must be used for the direct benefit of the minor and in accordance with any additional limitations (
e.g.,
statutory, court order, tribal resolution, etc.) placed on the use of specific trust funds. Allowable uses may include health, education, or welfare when based upon a justified unmet need. The BIA will require receipts for expenditures of funds disbursed from a minor's account to a custodial parent, legal guardian, person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor, or an emancipated minor.
§ 115.418
What types of trust funds may a minor have?
A minor may have one or more of the following types of trust funds:
(a) Judgment per capita funds: Withdrawals may only be made upon BIA
approval of an application made under Public Law 97-458. See 25 CFR 1.2.
(b) Tribal per capita funds: Withdrawals may only be made under a BIA approved distribution plan and in accordance with the terms of the tribe's per capita resolution/document.
(c) Other trust funds: Withdrawals may only be made under a minor's BIA-approved distribution plan that is based on a justified unmet need for the minor's health, education, or welfare.
(d) Funds from other federal agencies (e.g., SSA, SSI, VA) received for the benefit of the minor: Withdrawals must be made only under a BIA-approved distribution plan that must be consistent with the disbursing agency's (e.g., SSA, SSI, VA) allowable uses for the funds.
§ 115.419
Who develops a minor's distribution plan?
A social service provider will develop a minor's distribution plan for approval by the BIA after evaluating the needs of the minor in consultation with a custodial parent, a legal guardian, the person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor, or emancipated minor. A minor's distribution plan may only provide for those expenditures outlined in part § 115.417.
§ 115.420
When developing a minor's distribution plan, what information must be considered and included in the evaluation?
When developing a minor's distribution plan, the following information must be considered and included in the evaluation:
(a) Documentation which establishes who has physical custody of the minor (e.g., home visits, school records, medical records, etc.);
(b) A copy of any custodial orders or guardianship orders from a court of competent jurisdiction;
(c) The name(s) of the person and his or her relationship to the minor, if any, who make a request for a disbursement from the minor's account;
(d) An evaluation of other resources, including parental income, that may be available to meet the unmet needs of the minor;
(e) A list of the amounts, purposes, and dates for which disbursements will be made;
(f) The name(s) of the person to whom disbursements may be made, including, as applicable:
(1) A custodial parent;
(2) A legal guardian;
(3) The person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor;
(4) An emancipated minor; and/or
(5) Any third parties to whom the BIA will make direct payment for goods or services provided to the minor and supported by an invoice or bill of sale;
(g) The date(s) (at least every six months) when the custodial parent, the legal guardian, the person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor, or the emancipated minor must provide receipts to the BIA to show that expenditures were made in accordance with the approved distribution plan;
(h) Additional requirements and justification for those requirements, as necessary to ensure that any distribution(s) will benefit the minor;
(i) The dates the disbursement plan was developed, approved, and reviewed, and the date for the next scheduled review;
(j) The date(s) the distribution plan was amended and an explanation for any amendment(s) to the distribution plan, when an amendment is necessary;
(k) The signature of the BIA official approving the plan with the certification that the plan is in the best interest of the account holder; and
(l) The signature(s) of the custodial parent, legal guardian, with date(s) signed, certifying that he or she has been consulted and has agreed to the terms of the evaluation and the distribution plan.
§ 115.421
What information will be included in the copy of the minor's distribution plan that will be provided to OTFM?
A minor's distribution plan must contain the following:
(a) A copy of any custodial order or guardianship order from a court of competent jurisdiction;
(b) A list of the amounts, purposes, and dates for which disbursements will be made;
(c) The name(s) of the person(s) to whom disbursements may be made, including, as applicable:
(1) A custodial parent;
(2) A legal guardian;
(3) The person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor and the address of that person;
(4) An emancipated minor; and/or
(5) Any third parties and the address(es) of the third parties to whom the direct payment will be made for goods or services provided to the minor and supported by an invoice or bill of sale, where applicable;
(d) The date that the disbursement plan was approved and the expiration date of the distribution plan; and
(e) The date and signature of the BIA official approving the plan with a certification that the plan is in the best interest of the account holder.
§ 115.422
As a custodial parent, the legal guardian, the person who BIA has recognized as having control and custody of the minor, or an emancipated minor, what are your responsibilities if you receive trust funds from a minor's supervised account?
If you are a custodial parent, the legal guardian, the person who BIA has recognized as having control and custody of the minor, or an emancipated minor who receives funds from a minor's supervised account, you must:
(a) Consult with the social service provider on the development of an evaluation;
(b) Sign an acknowledgment that you have reviewed the evaluation;
(c) Follow the terms of a distribution plan approved by the BIA;
(d) Follow any applicable court order;
(e) Provide receipts to the social services provider in accordance with terms of the evaluation for all expenses paid out of the minor's IIM funds;
(f) Review the statements of performance for the supervised account for discrepancies, if applicable;
(g) File tax returns on behalf of the account holder, if applicable; and
(h) Notify the social service provider of any change in circumstances that impairs your performance of your obligations under this part or inform the social service provider of any information regarding misuse of a minor's trust funds.
§ 115.423
If you are a custodial parent, a legal guardian, or an emancipated minor, may BIA authorize the disbursement of funds from a minor's supervised account without your knowledge?
At the Secretary's discretion, the BIA may authorize the disbursement of funds from a minor's supervised account for the benefit of the minor.
§ 115.424
Who receives a copy of the BIA-approved distribution plan and any amendments to the plan?
The BIA-approved distribution plan will be provided to:
(a) The custodial parent; or
(b) A legal guardian; or
(c) At the Secretary's discretion, in unusual circumstances, to a family member who has been recognized as having control and custody of the minor; or
(d) An emancipated minor; and
(e) OTFM.
§ 115.425
What will we do if we find that a distribution plan has not been followed or an individual has acted improperly in regard to his or her duties involving a minor's trust funds?
If we find that a distribution plan has not been followed or that a custodial parent, a legal guardian, or the person who has been recognized by the BIA as having control and custody of the minor has failed to satisfactorily account for expenses or has not used the minor's funds for the primary benefit of the minor, we will:
(a) Notify the individual; and
(b) Take action to protect the interests of the minor, which may include:
(1) Referring the matter for civil or criminal legal action;
(2) Demanding repayment from the individual who has improperly expended trust funds or failed to account for the use of trust funds;
(3) Liquidating a bond posted by the legal guardian, where applicable, to recover improperly expended trust funds up to the amount of the bond; or
(4) Immediately modifying the distribution plan for up to sixty days, including suspending the authority of the individual to receive further disbursements.
§ 115.426
What is the BIA's responsibility regarding the management of a minor's supervised account?
The BIA's responsibility in regard to the management of a minor's supervised account is to:
(a) Review and approve the evaluation and the distribution plan;
(b) Authorize OTFM to disburse IIM funds in accordance with an approved distribution plan; and
(c) Conduct annual reviews of case records for minors' supervised accounts to ensure that the social service providers have managed the accounts in accordance with the approved evaluation and distribution plan.
§ 115.427
What is the BIA's annual review process for a minor's supervised account?
A BIA social worker with an MSW will conduct an annual review of minors' supervised accounts by:
(a) Verifying that all receipts for disbursements made under a distribution plan were collected in accordance with the terms specified in the evaluation;
(b) Reviewing the receipts for disbursements made from a minor's supervised account to ensure that all expenditures were made in accordance with the distribution plan;
(c) Reviewing all case worker reports and notes;
(d) Reviewing account records to insure that withdrawals and payments were made in accordance with the distribution plan;
(e) Verifying current addresses, including the address of record, the address of the minor's residence, and the disbursement address; and
(f) Deciding whether the distribution plan needs to be modified.
§ 115.428
Will you automatically receive all of your trust funds when you reach the age of 18?
No, we will not automatically send your trust funds to you when you reach the age of 18.
§ 115.429
What do you need to do when you reach 18 years of age to access your trust funds?
You must contact OTFM to request withdrawal of any or all of your trust funds that may be available to you. OTFM may require certain information from you to verify your identity, etc. prior to the release of your trust funds. All signatures must be notarized by a notary public or witnessed by a DOI employee. In addition, if you choose to have a check mailed to you, you must provide us with your address of record. If you choose to have your trust funds electronically transferred to you, you must provide your financial institution account information to OTFM.
§ 115.430
Will your account lose its supervised status when you reach the age of 18?
Your account will no longer be supervised when you reach the age of 18 unless statutory language or a tribal resolution specifies an age other than 18 years of age for access to specific trust funds. However, if a court of competent jurisdiction has found you to be non-compos mentis, under legal disability, or the BIA has determined you to be an adult in need of assistance, your account will remain supervised and you will be notified in accordance with subpart E.
§ 115.431
If you are an emancipated minor may you withdraw trust funds from your account?
If you are an emancipated minor, you may have access to some or all of your trust funds as follows:
(a) For judgment per capita funds: you may not make withdrawals from your account until you have reached the age specified in the judgment. Exceptions are only granted upon the approval of an application made under Public Law 97-458. See 25 CFR 1.2.
(b) Tribal per capita funds: access to these funds will be determined by tribal resolution.
(c) Other trust funds: You may be able to have supervised access to some or all of your funds, but the BIA must approve all requests for withdrawals from your account. You must work with the BIA to develop a distribution
plan to access the funds in your account. In no instance will the BIA allow an emancipated minor to make unsupervised withdrawals.
(d) For funds from other federal agencies (
e.g.,
SSA, SSI, VA), you may be able to receive funds directly, but you must contact and make arrangements with the other federal agency. Direct receipt of funds from another federal agency will not change the supervised status of an emancipated minor's trust account.

# Subpart D—IIM Accounts: Estate Accounts
§ 115.500
When is an estate account established?
An estate account is established when we receive notice of an account holder's death.
§ 115.501
How long will an estate account remain open?
An estate account will remain open until the funds have been distributed in accordance with the distribution and/or probate order.
§ 115.502
Who inherits the money in an IIM account when an account holder dies?
At the end of all probate procedures, funds remaining in a decedent's estate account will be distributed from the decedent's estate account and paid directly to or deposited into an IIM account of the decedent's heirs, beneficiaries, or other persons or entities entitled by law to receive the funds, where applicable. See 25 CFR part 15.
§ 115.503
May money in an IIM account be withdrawn after the death of an account holder but prior to the end of the probate proceedings?
(a) If you are responsible for making the funeral arrangements of a decedent who had an IIM account and you have an immediate need for emergency assistance to pay for funeral arrangements prior to burial, you may make a request to the BIA for up to $1,000 from the decedent's IIM account if the decedent's IIM account has more than $2,500 in the account at the date of death.
(b) You must apply for this assistance and submit to the BIA an original itemized estimate of the cost of the service to be rendered and the identification of the service provider.
(c) We may approve reasonable costs up to $1,000 that are necessary for the burial services.
(d) We will make payments directly to the providers of the service(s).
§ 115.504
If you have a life estate interest in income-producing trust assets, how will you receive the income?
If you have a life estate interest in income-producing trust assets, which is earning income, OTFM will open an IIM-life estate account for you and funds will be distributed after BIA has certified ownership of the trust funds.

# Subpart E—IIM Accounts: Hearing Process for Restricting an IIM Account
§ 115.600
If BIA decides to restrict your IIM account under § 115.102 or § 115.104, what procedures must the BIA follow?
If under § 115.102 or § 115.104, the BIA has decided to limit your access to your IIM account (
i.e.,
decided to supervise the IIM account), or if the BIA has decided to pay creditors with funds from your IIM account, including creditors with judgments from Courts of Indian Offenses for which preliminary procedures are prescribed in 25 CFR 11.208, the BIA must notify you or your guardian, as applicable, to provide you or your guardian, as applicable, with an opportunity to challenge the BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account as specified in subpart E.
§ 115.601
Under what circumstances may the BIA restrict your IIM account through supervision or an encumbrance?
(a) The BIA may restrict your IIM account through supervision if the BIA:
(1) Receives an order from a court of competent jurisdiction that you are non-compos mentis; or
(2) Receives an order or judgment from a court of competent jurisdiction that you are an adult in need of assistance because you are “incapable of
managing or administering property, including your financial affairs;” or
(3) Determines through an administrative process that you are an adult in need of assistance based on a finding by a licensed medical or mental health professional that you are “incapable of managing or administering property, including your financial affairs;” or
(4) Receives information from another federal agency that you are under a legal disability and that the agency has appointed a representative payee to receive federal benefits on your behalf.
(b) The BIA may restrict your IIM account through an encumbrance if the BIA:
(1) Receives an order from a court of competent jurisdiction awarding child support from your IIM account; or
(2) Receives from a third party:
(i) A copy of the original contract between you and the third party in which you used your IIM funds as security/collateral for the transaction;
(ii) A copy of the document showing that the BIA approved in advance the use of your IIM funds as security/collateral for the contract;
(iii) Proof of your default on the contract according to the terms of the contract; and
(iv) A copy of the original assignment of IIM income as security/collateral for the contract that is signed and dated by you and is notarized;
(3) Receives a money judgment from a Court of Indian Offenses pursuant to 25 CFR 11.208 or under any tribal law and order code;
(4) Is provided documentation showing that BIA or OTFM caused an administrative error which resulted in a deposit into your IIM account, or a disbursement to you, or to a third party on your behalf; or
(5) Is provided with proof of debts owed to the United States pursuant to § 115.104 of this part.
§ 115.602
How will the BIA notify you or your guardian, as applicable, of its decision to restrict your IIM account?
The BIA will notify you or your guardian, as applicable, of its decision to restrict your IIM account by:
(a) United States certified mail to your address of record;
(b) Personal delivery to you or your guardian, as applicable, or to your address of record;
(c) Publication for four consecutive weeks in your tribal newspaper if your whereabouts are unknown and in the local newspaper serving your last known address of record; or
(d) United States certified mail to you in care of the warden, if you are incarcerated. The BIA may send a copy of the notification to your attorney, if known.
§ 115.603
What happens if BIA's notice of its decision to place a restriction on your IIM account that is sent by United States certified mail is returned to the BIA as undeliverable for any reason?
If BIA's notice of its decision to place a restriction on your IIM account that is sent by United States certified mail is returned to the BIA as undeliverable for any reason, the BIA will remove the restriction on your account, which was placed five days after the notice was mailed, and will publish a notice in accordance with § 115.602(c) and § 115.605(b).
§ 115.604
When will BIA authorize OTFM to place a restriction on your IIM account?
BIA will authorize OTFM to place a restriction on your IIM account after providing OTFM with supporting documentation (i.e., receipts, notice of publication, etc.) of the following:
(a) Five (5) days after the date BIA mails you or your guardian, as applicable, notice of its decision to restrict your account by United States certified mail to your address of record;
(b) One (1) day after BIA has made personal delivery to you or your guardian, as applicable, or to your address of record of its notice of the BIA's decision to restrict your account; or
(c) Five (5) days after the fourth publication of the public notice of BIA's decision to restrict your account.
§ 115.605
What information will the BIA include in its notice of the decision to restrict your IIM account?
(a) When the BIA provides notice of its decision to restrict your IIM account by certified mail or personal delivery to you or your guardian, as applicable, the notice must contain:
(1) The name on the IIM account;
(2) The reason for the restriction;
(3) The amount to be encumbered, if applicable;
(4) A statement that your IIM account will be restricted 5 days after the date the notice was sent United States certified mail to your address of record;
(5) An explanation that you have 40 days from the date the notice was sent United States certified mail to request a hearing to challenge BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account;
(6) An explanation of how to request a hearing;
(7) A statement that the BIA will conduct the hearing and that you are assured a fair hearing;
(8) A copy of the fair hearing guidelines;
(9) A statement that you may contact the BIA to authorize immediate payment from your IIM account to pay the claim, if applicable;
(10) The address and phone number of the BIA office that made the decision to restrict your IIM account and provided the notice; and
(11) Other information as may be determined appropriate by the BIA.
(b) When the BIA provides public notice of its decision to restrict your account, the only information the public notice will include is:
(1) The name on the account;
(2) The date of first publication of the public notice;
(3) A statement that the BIA has decided to place a restriction on your IIM account;
(4) A statement that the public notice will be published once a week for four consecutive weeks;
(5) A statement that the BIA will place a restriction on your account five (5) days after the date of the fourth publication of the public notice;
(6) A statement that your opportunity to request a hearing to challenge BIA's decision to restrict your account will expire 30 days after the date of the fourth publication of the public notice; and
(7) An address and telephone number of the BIA office publishing the notice to request further information and instructions on how to request a hearing.
§ 115.606
What happens if you do not request a hearing to challenge BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account during the allotted time period?
If you or your guardian, as applicable, do not request a hearing to challenge BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account during the allotted time period, BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account will become final. BIA will follow the procedures outlined in § 115.616 through § 115.618, and § 115.620, as applicable.
§ 115.607
How do you request a hearing to challenge the BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account?
You or your guardian, as applicable, must request a hearing to challenge the BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account from the BIA office that made the decision and notified you of the restriction. Your request must:
(a) Be in writing;
(b) Specifically request a hearing to challenge the restriction; and
(c) Be hand delivered to the BIA office or postmarked within:
(i) 40 days of the date that BIA's notice was sent United States certified mail or personally delivered to the address of record, or
(ii) 30 days of the date of the final publication of the public notice.
§ 115.608
If you request a hearing to challenge BIA's decision to restrict your IIM account, when will BIA conduct the hearing?
BIA will conduct a hearing within ten (10) working days from its receipt of a written request from you or your guardian, as applicable, for a hearing to challenge the decision to restrict your IIM account.
§ 115.609
Will you be allowed to present testimony and/or evidence at the hearing?
Yes, you or your guardian, as applicable, will be provided the opportunity
to present testimony and/or evidence as to the reasons the BIA should not restrict your IIM account, including information showing how an encumbrance may create an undue financial hardship, if applicable. You may not challenge a court order or judgment in this proceeding. However, if you have appealed an order or judgment from a court of competent jurisdiction, you or your guardian, as applicable, may present evidence of your appeal and the BIA hearing will be postponed until there is a final order from the court. The restriction on your IIM account will remain in place until after the hearing is concluded.
§ 115.610
Will you be allowed to present witnesses during a hearing?
Yes, you or your guardian, as applicable, may present witnesses during a hearing. You are responsible for any and all expenses which may be associated with presenting witnesses.
§ 115.611
Will you be allowed to question opposing witnesses during a hearing?
Yes, you or your guardian, as applicable, may question all opposing witnesses testifying during your hearing. You may also present witnesses to challenge opposing witness testimony.
§ 115.612
May you be represented by an attorney during your hearing?
Yes, you may have an attorney or other person represent you during your hearing. However, you are responsible for any and all expenses associated with having an attorney or other person represent you.
§ 115.613
Will the BIA record the hearing?
Yes, the BIA will record the hearing.
§ 115.614
Why is the BIA hearing recorded?
The BIA hearing will be recorded so that it will be available for review if the hearing process is appealed under § 115.107. The BIA hearing record must be preserved as a trust record.
§ 115.615
How long after the hearing will BIA make its final decision?
BIA will make its final decision within 10 business days of the end of the hearing.
§ 115.616
What information will be included in BIA's final decision?
BIA's final written decision to the parties involved in the proceeding will include:
(a) BIA's decision to remove or retain the restriction on the IIM account;
(b) A detailed justification for the supervision or encumbrance of the IIM account, where applicable;
(c) The amount(s) to be paid, the name and address of a third party to whom payment will be made, and the time period for repayment established under 617(a) of this part, where applicable;
(d) Any provision to allow for distributions to the account holder because of an undue financial hardship created by the encumbrance, if applicable; and
(e) Any other information the hearing officer deems necessary.
§ 115.617
What happens when the BIA decides to supervise or encumber your IIM account after your hearing?
BIA will provide OTFM with a copy of the distribution plan, after the BIA decides to:
(a) Supervise your IIM account. BIA social services staff will consult with you and/or your guardian to develop a distribution plan. Upon BIA approval, the distribution plan will be valid for one year.
(b) Encumber your IIM account. BIA will review your account balance and your future IIM income to develop a distribution plan that establishes the amount(s) to be paid and the dates payment(s) will be made to the specified party. Payments may need to be made over the course of one or more years if the amount owed to the specified party is greater than your current IIM account balance.
§ 115.618
What happens if at the conclusion of the notice and hearing process we decide to encumber your IIM account because of an administrative error which resulted in funds that you do not own being deposited in your account or distributed to you or to a third party on your behalf?
If we decide at the conclusion of the notice and hearing process to encumber your account because of an administrative error which resulted in funds that you do not own being deposited into your IIM account or distributed to you or to a third party on your behalf, we will consult with you or your guardian, as applicable, to determine how the funds will be re-paid.
§ 115.619
If the BIA decides that the restriction on your IIM account will be continued after your hearing, do you have the right to appeal that decision?
Yes, if the BIA decides after your hearing to continue the restriction on your IIM account, you or your guardian, as applicable, have the right to appeal the decision under the procedures proscribed in § 115.107.
§ 115.620
If you decide to appeal the BIA's final decision pursuant to § 115.107, will the BIA restrict your IIM account during the appeal?
Yes, if under § 115.107 you or your guardian, as applicable, decide to appeal the BIA's final decision to:
(a) Supervise your IIM account, your IIM account will remain restricted during the appeal period.
(b) Encumber your IIM account, your IIM account will remain restricted up to the amount at issue during the appeal period. If your account balance is greater than the amount encumbered, those funds will be available to you upon request to and by approval of the Secretary.

# Subpart F—Trust Fund Accounts: General Information
§ 115.700
Why is money held in trust for tribes and individual Indians?
Congress has passed a number of laws that require the Secretary to establish and administer trust fund accounts for Indian tribes and certain individual Indians who have an interest(s) in trust lands, trust resources, or trust assets.
§ 115.701
What types of accounts are maintained for Indian trust funds?
Indian trust funds are deposited in tribal accounts, Individual Indian Money (IIM) accounts, and special deposit accounts. The illustration below provides information on each of these trust accounts.
ER22JA01.172
[66 FR 7094, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 8768, Feb. 2, 2001]
§ 115.702
What specific sources of money will be accepted for deposit into a trust account?
We must accept proceed on behalf of tribes or individuals from the following sources:
ER22JA01.173
ER22JA01.174
ER22JA01.175
[66 FR 7094, Jan. 22, 2001. Redesignated at 66 FR 8768, Feb. 2, 2001]
§ 115.703
May we accept for deposit into a trust account money not specified in § 115.702?
No, we will not accept funds from sources that are not identified in the table in § 115.702 for deposit into a trust account.
§ 115.704
May we accept for deposit into a trust account retirement checks/payments or pension fund checks/payments even though those funds are not specified in § 115.702?
No, we will not accept retirement checks/payments or pension fund checks/payments or any funds from sources that are not identified in the table in § 115.702 for deposit into a trust account.
§ 115.705
May we accept for deposit into a trust account money awarded or assessed by a court of competent jurisdiction?
We will accept money awarded or assessed by a court of competent jurisdiction for a cause of action directly related to trust assets to be deposited into a trust account. Other funds awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction may not be deposited into a trust account.
§ 115.706
When funds are awarded or assessed by a court of competent jurisdiction in a cause of action involving trust assets, what documentation is required to deposit the trust funds into a trust account?
When funds are awarded or assessed by a court of competent jurisdiction in a cause of action involving trust assets, we must receive the funds awarded as stipulated in the court order and a copy of the court's order.
§ 115.707
Will the Secretary accept administrative fees for deposit into a trust account?
No. The Secretary will not accept administrative fees for deposit into a trust account because administrative fees are not trust funds. However, administrative fees may be deposited into a non-interest bearing, non-trust account with the BIA.
§ 115.708
How quickly will trust funds received by the Secretary on behalf of tribes or individual Indians be deposited into a trust account?
Trust funds received by the Secretary on behalf of a tribe or individual Indians will be deposited into a trust account within twenty-four hours, or no later than the close of business on the next business day following the receipt of funds at a location with a designated federal depository.
§ 115.709
Will an annual audit be conducted on trust funds?
Yes, in accordance with the Trust Reform Act an annual audit will be conducted on trust funds. Each tribe and IIM account holder will be notified when the Secretary has conducted an annual audit on a fiscal year basis of all the trust funds held by the United States for the benefit of tribes and individual Indians. This notice will be provided in the first quarterly statement of performance following the publication of the audit.

# Investments and Interests
§ 115.710
Does money in a trust account earn interest?
Yes, all money deposited in a trust account is invested and earns interest or yield returns, or both.
§ 115.711
How is money in a trust account invested?
OTFM manages trust fund investments and its investment decisions are governed by federal statute. See 25 U.S.C. §§ 161(a) and 162a.
§ 115.712
What is the interest rate earned on money in a trust account?
The rate of interest on a trust account changes based on how the money is invested and how those investments perform.
§ 115.713
When does money in a trust account start earning interest?
Funds must remain on deposit at least one business day before interest is earned. Interest earnings of less than one cent are not credited to any account.

# Subpart G—Tribal Accounts
§ 115.800
When does OTFM open a tribal account?
A tribal account is opened when OTFM receives income from the sources described in § 115.702.
§ 115.801
How often will a tribe receive information about its trust account(s)?
The OTFM is required to provide each tribe with a statement of performance quarterly, within or no later than 20 business days after the close of every quarterly statement period.
§ 115.802
May a tribe make a request to OTFM to receive information about its trust account more frequently?
Yes, a tribe may contact OTFM at any time to:
(a) Request information about account transactions and balances;
(b) Make arrangements to access account information electronically; or
(c) Receive a monthly statement.
§ 115.803
What information will be provided in a statement of performance?
The statement of performance will identify the source, type, and status of the trust funds deposited and held in a trust account; the beginning balance; the gains and losses; receipts and disbursements; and the ending account balance of the quarterly statement period.
§ 115.804
Will we account to a tribe for those trust funds the tribe receives through direct pay?
No, under the Trust Reform Act we are only responsible for accounting for those trust funds received into, and maintained by, the Department's trust funds management system.
§ 115.805
If a tribe is paid directly under a contract for the sale or use of trust assets, will we accept those trust funds for deposit into a tribal trust account?
If a contract for the sale or use of trust assets specifies that payments are to be made directly to a tribe, we will not accept these trust funds into a tribal trust account. Where a tribe under 25 U.S.C. 450f
et seq.
has contracted or compacted with the federal government to operate a federal program and the tribe, operating the federal program on behalf of the Secretary, receives trust funds for the sale or use of trust assets pursuant to a contract that specifies that payments are to be made to the Secretary on behalf of a tribe or an individual [the owner of the trust assets], the tribe must follow § 115.708 for the deposit of the trust funds into the trust account.
§ 115.806
How will the BIA assist in the administration of tribal judgment fund accounts?
(a) If the tribe requests assistance or if Congress directs the Secretary to provide assistance, BIA will provide technical assistance on developing a judgment use and distribution plan to a tribe.
(b) BIA will review all tribal requests for distribution of tribal judgment funds to ensure that each request complies with any requirements associated with the use of that money found in
statutory language, congressional directives, court orders, court-approved settlements, settlement agreements, use and distribution plans, or bond or loan payments.

# Investing and Managing Tribal Trust Funds
§ 115.807
Will OTFM consult with tribes about investments of tribal trust funds?
Upon the request of a tribe, OTFM will consult with the tribe annually to develop investment strategies to accommodate the cash flow needs of the tribe.
§ 115.808
Could trust fund investments made by OTFM lose money?
The value of trust fund investments made by OTFM will vary depending on the type of investment and, including but not limited to, the following:
(a) Current interest rates;
(b) Whether the security/investment is held to its maturity; and
(c) Original purchase price.
However, as long as the purchase price of the security/investment is made at or below face value and the security/investment is held until maturity or payoff, the security/investment will not lose principal invested funds.
§ 115.809
May a tribe recommend to OTFM how to invest the tribe's trust funds?
Tribes may recommend certain investments to OTFM, but the recommendations must be in accordance with the statutory requirements set forth in 25 U.S.C. §§ 161a and 162a. The OTFM will make the final investment decision based on prudent investment practices.
§ 115.810
May a tribe directly invest and manage its trust funds?
A tribe may apply to withdraw its trust funds from OTFM for investment and management by the tribe. The tribe's request to withdraw funds must be in accordance with the requirements of the Trust Reform Act and 25 CFR part 1200, subpart B, unless otherwise specified by statutory language or the controlling document which governs the use of the trust funds.
§ 115.811
Under what conditions may a tribe redeposit funds with OTFM that were previously withdrawn under the Trust Reform Act?
Tribal trust funds withdrawn under the Trust Reform Act may be returned to OTFM under the following conditions:
(a) A tribe must make a written request to OTFM to redeposit all or part of the withdrawn trust funds;
(b) No tribal trust funds may be redeposited to a tribal trust account during the first six months after being withdrawn, except with the approval of the Secretary;
(c) Tribal trust funds may only be returned to OTFM a maximum of twice a year, except with the approval of the Secretary; and
(d) A tribe must return withdrawn trust funds in accordance with the requirements of the Trust Reform Act in 25 CFR, part 1200, subpart C.
§ 115.812
Is a tribe responsible for its expenditures of trust funds that are not made in compliance with statutory language or other federal law?
If a tribe's use of trust funds is limited by statutory language or other federal law(s) and a tribe uses those trust funds in direct violation of those laws, absent an approved modification which allows for the expenditures, we will require the tribe to reimburse its trust fund account.
§ 115.813
Is there a limit to the amount of trust funds OTFM will disburse from a tribal trust account?
OTFM will only disburse the available balance of the trust funds in a tribal trust account in accordance with a use and distribution plan, if applicable, and will not overdraw a tribal trust account. If a tribe's trust funds are invested in securities that have not matured, OTFM will only sell the asset to make cash available to the tribe if:
(a) There are no restrictions against the sale, and
(b) A tribe provides OTFM with a tribal resolution stating that:
(1) The security must be sold;
(2) The tribe acknowledges that they may incur a penalty when the security is sold; and
(3) The tribe acknowledges that the security may lose value if it is sold prior to maturity.
§ 115.814
If a tribe withdraws money from its trust account for a particular purpose or project, may the tribe redeposit any money that was not used for its intended purpose?
A tribe may redeposit funds not used for a particular purpose or project if:
(a) The funds were withdrawn in accordance with:
(1) The terms of Trust Reform Act;
(2) The terms of the legislative settlement; or
(3) The terms of a judgment use and distribution plan; and
(b) The tribe can provide documentation showing the source of the funds to be redeposited.

# Withdrawing Tribal Trust Funds
§ 115.815
How does a tribe request trust funds from a tribal trust account?
To request trust funds from a tribal trust account, a tribe may:
(a) Make a written request to the BIA or the OTFM that is signed by the proper authorizing official(s), list the amount of trust funds to be withdrawn, provide any additional documentation or information required by law to withdraw certain trust funds, and must include a tribal resolution approving the withdrawal of the specified amount of trust funds; or
(b) Contact the OTFM to withdraw funds in accordance with the Trust Reform Act and 25 CFR part 1200.
§ 115.816
May a tribe's request for a withdrawal of trust funds from its trust account be delayed or denied?
(a) Action on a tribe's request for a withdrawal of trust funds may be delayed or denied if:
(1) The tribe did not submit all the necessary documentation;
(2) The tribe's request is not signed by the proper authorizing official(s);
(3) OTFM does not have documentation from the tribe certifying its recognized, authorizing officials;
(4) The tribe's request is in conflict with statutory language or the controlling document governing the use of the trust funds; or
(5) The BIA or OTFM requires clarification regarding the tribe's request.
(b) If action on a tribe's request to withdraw trust funds will be delayed or denied, the BIA or the OTFM will:
(1) Notify the tribe within ten (10) working days of the date of a request made under § 115.815(a);
(2) Notify the tribe under the time frames established in 25 CFR part 1200 for requests made under the Trust Reform Act; and
(3) Provide technical assistance to the tribe to address any problems.
§ 115.817
How does OTFM disburse money to a tribe?
Upon receipt of all necessary documentation, OTFM will process the request for disbursement and send the tribe the requested amount of trust funds within one business day. Whenever possible, trust funds will be disbursed electronically to an account in a financial institution designated by the tribe. If there are circumstances that preclude electronic payments, OTFM will mail a check.

# Unclaimed Per Capita Funds
§ 115.818
What happens if an Indian adult does not cash his or her per capita check?
(a) If an Indian adult does not cash his or her per capita check within twelve (12) months of the date the check was issued, the check will be canceled and the trust funds will be deposited into a “returned per capita account” where the funds will be maintained until we receive a request for disbursement by the Indian adult or for disposition by a tribe pursuant to § 115.820.
(b) If an Indian adult's per capita check is returned to us as undeliverable, the trust funds will be immediately deposited into a “returned per capita account” where the funds will be maintained until we receive a request for disbursement by the individual or for disposition by a tribe pursuant to § 115.820.
§ 115.819
What steps will be taken to locate an individual whose per capita check is returned as undeliverable or not cashed within twelve (12) months of issuance?
The OTFM will notify a tribe of the names of the individuals whose per capita checks were returned as undeliverable or not cashed within twelve (12) months of issuance and will take reasonable action, including utilizing electronic search tools, to locate the individual entitled to receive the per capita funds.
§ 115.820
May OTFM transfer money in a returned per capita account to a tribal account?
Funds in a returned per capita account will not automatically be returned to a tribe. However, a tribe may apply under 25 U.S.C. 164 and Public Law 87-283, 75 Stat. 584 (1961), to have the unclaimed per capita funds transferred to its account for the tribe's use after six years have passed from the date of distribution.

# Subpart H—Special Deposit Accounts
§ 115.900
Who receives the interest earned on trust funds in a special deposit account?
Generally, any interest earned on trust funds in a special deposit account will follow the principal (i.e., the tribe or individual who owns the trust funds in the special deposit account will receive the interest earned).
§ 115.901
When will the trust funds in a special deposit account be credited or paid out to the owner of the funds?
OTFM will disburse the trust funds from a special deposit account and deposit the trust funds in the owner's trust account following the BIA certification of the ownership of the funds and OTFM's receipt of such certification.
§ 115.902
May administrative or land conveyance fees paid as federal reimbursements be deposited in a special deposit account?
No, administrative or land conveyance fees paid as federal reimbursements may not be deposited with OTFM, which includes special deposit accounts. These fees must be deposited in the Federal Financial System.
§ 115.903
May cash bonds (e.g., performance bonds, appeal bonds, etc.) be deposited into a special deposit account?
No, cash bonds may not be deposited with OTFM, which includes the special deposit accounts at OTFM. Cash bonds held by the Secretary are to be deposited in non-interest bearing accounts until the term of the bonds expire.
§ 115.904
Where earnest money is paid prior to Secretarial approval of a conveyance or contract instrument involving trust assets, may the BIA deposit that earnest money into a special deposit account?
No, any money received prior to Secretarial approval of conveyance or contract instrument involving trust assets must be deposited into a non-interest bearing, non-trust account. After the Secretary approves the conveyance or contract instrument involving trust assets, the money designated by the conveyance or contract instrument will be deposited into a trust fund account.

# Subpart I—Records
§ 115.1000
Who owns the records associated with this part?
(a) Records are the property of the United States if they:
(1) Are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of a federal trust function under this part, including the operation of a trust program pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 450f
et seq.;
and
(2) Evidence the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities undertaken in the performance of a federal trust function under this part.
(b) Records not covered by paragraph (a) of this section that are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part are the property of the tribe.
§ 115.1001
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
(a) Any organization, including tribes and tribal organizations, that have
records identified in § 115.1000(a) must preserve the records in accordance with approved Departmental records retention procedures under the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. Chapters 29, 31 and 33. These records and related records management practices and safeguards required under the Federal Records Act are subject to inspection by the Secretary and the Archivist of the United States.
(b) A tribe or tribal organization should preserve the records identified in § 115.1000(b) for the period of time authorized by the Archivist of the United States for similar Department of the Interior records in accordance with 44 U.S.C. Chapter 33. If a tribe or tribal organization does not preserve records associated with its conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part, the tribe or tribal organization may be prevented from being able to adequately document essential transactions or furnish information necessary to protect its legal and financial rights or those of persons directly affected by its activities.
Pt. 117

# PART 117—DEPOSIT AND EXPENDITURE OF INDIVIDUAL FUNDS OF MEMBERS OF THE OSAGE TRIBE OF INDIANS WHO DO NOT HAVE CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY
Sec.
117.1
Definitions.
117.2
Payment of taxes of adult Indians.
117.3
Payment of taxes of Indians under 21 years of age.
117.4
Disbursement of allowance funds.
117.5
Procedure for hearings to assume supervision of expenditure of allowance funds.
117.6
Allowance for minors.
117.7
Disbursement or expenditure of surplus funds.
117.8
Purchase of land.
117.9
Construction and repairs.
117.10
Purchase of automotive equipment.
117.11
Insurance.
117.12
Costs of recording and conveyancing.
117.13
Telephone and telegraph messages.
117.14
Miscellaneous expenditure of surplus funds.
117.15
Collections from insurance companies.
117.16
Reimbursement to surplus funds.
117.17
Inactive surplus funds accounts.
117.18
Withdrawal and payment of segregated trust funds.
117.19
Debts of Indians.
117.20
Purchase orders.
117.21
Fees and expenses of attorneys.
117.22
Disbursements to legal guardians.
117.23
Transactions between guardian and ward.
117.24
Compensation for guardians and their attorneys.
117.25
Charges for services to Indians.
117.26
Expenses incurred pending qualification of an executor or administrator.
117.27
Custody of funds pending administration of estates.
117.28
Payment of claims against estates.
117.29
Sale of improvements.
117.30
Sale of personal property.
117.31
Removal of restrictions from personal property.
117.32
Funds of Indians of other tribes.
117.33
Signature of illiterates.
117.34
Financial status of Indians confidential.
117.35
Appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
22 FR 10554, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 117.1
Definitions.
When used in the regulations in this part the following words or terms shall have the meaning shown below:
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
(b)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or his authorized representative.
(c)
Superintendent
means the superintendent of the Osage Agency.
(d)
Quarterly payment
means the payment of not to exceed $1,000 which is made each fiscal quarter to or on behalf of an adult Indian, from the following sources:
(1) The pro rata distribution of tribal mineral income and other tribal revenues.
(2) The interest on segregated trust funds.
(3) Surplus funds in addition to the income from the foregoing sources in the amount necessary to aggregate $1,000 when the income from those sources is less than $1,000 and the Indian has a balance of accumulated surplus funds in excess of $10,000.
(e)
Surplus funds
means all those moneys and securities readily convertible into cash, except allowance funds and segregated trust funds, which are held to the credit of an Indian at the
Osage Agency and which may be disbursed, expended or invested only upon authorization by the Secretary. The term includes:
(1) That portion of the quarterly distribution of tribal income and interest on segregated trust funds, in excess of $1,000, belonging to an adult Indian.
(2) The proceeds, including appreciation, of the sale or conversion of restricted real or personal property (other than partition sales).
(3) Payments made by insurance companies or others for loss or damage to restricted real or personal property.
(4) All moneys and securities, other than segregated trust funds, to the credit of an Indian who is less than 21 years of age (except the income from restricted lands payable as provided by § 117.3).
(5) Funds and securities placed to the credit of an Indian upon the distribution of an Osage estate.
(f)
Allowance funds
means that income payable to or on behalf of a living adult Indian, the expenditure and disbursement of which is not subject to supervision unless authorized pursuant to the procedure contained in § 117.5. The term includes:
(1) The quarterly payment in an amount not to exceed $1,000.
(2) The rentals and income from restricted lands owned by the Indian.
(3) The rentals and income from restricted lands owned by the minor children of the Indian, as provided in § 117.3.
(4) Income from investments.
(5) Interest on deposits to the credit of the Indian.
(g)
Segregated trust funds
means those moneys held in the United States Treasury at interest to the credit of an Indian which represent pro rata shares of the segregation of tribal trust funds and the proceeds of the partition of restricted lands.
§ 117.2
Payment of taxes of adult Indians.
The superintendent may cause to be paid out of any money heretofore accrued or hereafter accruing to the credit of any adult Indian all taxes of every kind and character for which such Indian is or may be liable before paying to or for such person any funds as required by law. All checks in payment of taxes shall be made payable to the proper collector. For the purpose of establishing a fund with which to meet the payment of such taxes when due, the Superintendent may cause the funds of an adult Indian to be hypothecated in the following manner:
(a) For the payment of ad valorem taxes, one-fourth of the estimated amount ad valorem taxes from each quarterly payment unless this procedure would cause the obligation of more than 25 percent of such quarterly payments, in which event the necessary additional funds shall be retained from other allowance funds payable to such person under the law. If there be no other allowance funds available, or if the funds from these sources are insufficient, one-fourth of the estimated amount of such ad valorem taxes may be obligated from each quarterly payment. If an Indian who is liable for ad valorem taxes has no allowance funds, or such funds are insufficient for the payment thereof, surplus funds may be used for such payment.
(b)(1) For the payment of income taxes, one-half of the estimated amount of income taxes from each semi-annual payment of interest on deposits, but if such interest payments are insufficient to meet this obligation, additional funds shall be retained from interest on investments, rentals, or other allowance funds.
(2) Whenever funds are withheld for the purpose of establishing a fund to meet the payment of taxes, the Indian shall be notified of the action taken.
§ 117.3
Payment of taxes of Indians under 21 years of age.
All taxes assessed against the restricted lands of Indians less than 21 years of age shall be paid by the superintendent direct to the collector from the rents and income derived from such lands, and the balance, if any, of such rents and income shall be paid to the living parents or parent. If the parents are separated, the balance shall be paid to the parent having custody of the Indian under 21 years of age. All other taxes for which an Indian under 21 years of age may be liable shall be paid from his surplus funds.
§ 117.4
Disbursement of allowance funds.
Except as provided in § 117.5, all allowance funds shall be disbursed to the Indian owner unless the Indian owner directs otherwise in writing. At the request of the Indian owner, such funds may be retained by the superintendent as voluntary deposits subject to withdrawal or other disposition upon demand or direction of the Indian owner. The superintendent may recognize a power of attorney executed by the Indian and may disburse the allowance funds of the Indian in conformity therewith so long as the power of attorney remains in force and effect.
§ 117.5
Procedure for hearings to assume supervision of expenditure of allowance funds.
(a) Whenever the superintendent has reason to believe that an adult Indian is wasting or squandering his allowance funds the superintendent may cause an investigation and written report of the facts to be made. If the report indicates that the Indian is wasting or squandering his allowance funds the following notice shall be served upon the Indian, in person or by registered mail, and a copy thereof shall likewise be served upon his guardian if the Indian is under guardianship:
Section 1 of the act of February 27, 1925 (43 Stat. 1008) provides in part as follows:
“All payments to adults not having certificates of competency, including amounts paid for each minor, shall, in case the Secretary of the Interior finds that such adults are wasting or squandering said income, be subject to the supervision of the Superintendent of the Osage Agency: . . .”
Enclosed is a copy of a report which has been made to me concerning your handling and management of the income paid to you through the Osage Agency. This report indicates that you have been wasting and squandering your payments.
You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held in the Osage Indian Agency, Pawhuska, Oklahoma, at ____ m., on the __________ day of ______________, 19____, before the Superintendent, for the purpose of taking testimony and evidence to be submitted to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for his consideration in determining whether your payments shall be subject to the supervision of the Superintendent.
You are requested to be present at the hearing at the time and place designated above. You may introduce at the hearing such testimony and evidence as you deem appropriate to show that you are not wasting or squandering your payments and that your payments should continue to be made to you without supervision for your unrestricted use.
You are entitled to employ an attorney to assist you in this matter. Upon your request the employees of the Osage Agency will furnish you with any information you desire concerning your accounts at the Osage Agency or any of your transactions handled through the Osage Agency.
Date.
Superintendent.
(b) A hearing shall be held pursuant to the notice, the date of which shall be not less than 30 days after the date of the notice. For good cause shown to exist the superintendent may continue the hearing to a later date.
(c) A record of the proceedings, consisting of the superintendent's preliminary report, the notice and proof of service, all testimony and evidence introduced at the hearing, and all briefs and letters filed by the Indian or his attorney shall be submitted to the Commissioner, together with a recommendation from the superintendent.
(d) Upon a finding by the Commissioner that the Indian is wasting or squandering his income, his allowance funds shall thereafter be subject to the supervision of the superintendent. Notice of the decision of the Commissioner shall be furnished all interested parties.
§ 117.6
Allowance for minors.
The superintendent may disburse from the surplus funds of an Indian under 21 years of age not to exceed $300 quarterly for the support and maintenance of the minor. Disbursement may be made to the parent, guardian, or other person, school or institution having actual custody of the minor, or, when the minor is 18 years of age or over, disbursement may be made direct to the minor.
§ 117.7
Disbursement or expenditure of surplus funds.
Except as provided in the regulations in this part, no disbursement or expenditure of surplus funds of Indians shall be made without the consent of
the Indian owner and until authorization has been obtained from the Commissioner. Application by an Indian or his legal guardian, or if he is a minor, by his parent or legal guardian, for the expenditure of surplus funds shall be presented to the Commissioner, fully justified with the appropriate attachments such as court orders, decrees or other papers. Such application shall contain full information regarding the individual including his cash balance, the sum invested, the number of shares in the Osage mineral estate, total income from all sources including that paid on behalf of minors, the family status and the occupation or industry of the applicant. When request is made for payment to the individual without supervision, the record of said individual and his ability to handle such funds shall be shown.
§ 117.8
Purchase of land.
Upon written application of an adult Indian, the superintendent may disburse not to exceed $10,000 from the surplus funds of such Indian for the purchase of land, the title to which has been examined and accepted by the special attorney for the Osage Indians or other legal officer designated by the Commissioner. In all cases title must be taken by deed containing a clause restricting alienation or encumbrance without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
§ 117.9
Construction and repairs.
Upon written application by an adult Indian, the superintendent may disburse not to exceed $1,000 during any one fiscal year from the surplus funds of such Indian to make repairs and improvements to restricted real property and in addition not to exceed $300 for new construction. When such expenditures are being made on property producing an income, reimbursement shall be required from such income unless otherwise directed by the Commissioner. When an Indian refuses to make application for funds to defray the cost of repairs necessary to preserve restricted property, the superintendent may, when authorized by the Commissioner, expend the surplus funds of the Indian for such repairs.
§ 117.10
Purchase of automotive equipment.
The superintendent may disburse from the surplus funds of an adult Indian not to exceed $2,000 for the purchase of automotive equipment when the Indian agrees in writing to carry property and liability insurance on the automotive equipment and to reimburse his surplus funds account from allowance funds within 24 months. No disbursement of surplus funds for the purchase of automotive equipment shall be made if the fulfillment of the reimbursable agreement will endanger the payment of taxes, insurance or other obligations, or result in the inability of the Indian to meet his current living expenses from allowance funds.
§ 117.11
Insurance.
The superintendent may obtain policies of insurance covering the restricted property, real or personal, of minor Indians and pay the premiums thereon from the funds of the minors. Upon application by an adult Indian the superintendent may procure insurance on any restricted property, real or personal, owned by the applicant and pay the necessary premiums from his surplus or allowance funds. When authorized by the Commissioner, the superintendent may also procure insurance on restricted property, real or personal, of any adult Indian who neglects or refuses to take out such insurance.
§ 117.12
Costs of recording and conveyancing.
The superintendent may expend the surplus funds of an Indian to make direct payment of recording fees and costs, of conveyancing, including abstracting costs, which are properly payable by the Indian.
§ 117.13
Telephone and telegraph messages.
The superintendent may expend the surplus funds of an Indian to make direct payment for telephone and telegraph messages sent by the agency or received at the agency at the instance of the Indian or his guardian or attorney.
§ 117.14
Miscellaneous expenditure of surplus funds.
Upon application by an adult Indian the superintendent may disburse the surplus funds of such Indian for the following purposes:
(a) Medical, dental, and hospital expenses for the applicant or a member of his family, not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) during any one fiscal year.
(b) Funeral expenses, including the funeral feast, of a deceased member of his family, in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000).
(c) A tombstone or monument to mark the grave of a deceased member of his family in amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500).
(d) Court costs in any judicial proceeding to which the applicant is a party.
(e) Bond premiums, except bail and supersedeas bonds.
(f) For miscellaneous purposes, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) during any one fiscal year.
§ 117.15
Collections from insurance companies.
Moneys collected from insurance companies for loss or damage to restricted real or personal property shall be deposited to the credit of the Indian owner as surplus funds. Moneys so deposited to the credit of an adult Indian may, upon the written application of the Indian, be disbursed by the superintendent for the purpose of repairing or replacing the property. Moneys collected from insurance companies for loss or damage to unrestricted real or personal property shall be paid to the Indian for his unrestricted use.
§ 117.16
Reimbursement to surplus funds.
When expenditures have been made from surplus funds upon the condition, and with the written agreement of the Indian, that reimbursement or repayment shall be made from future allowance funds, the superintendent is authorized to withhold from succeeding quarterly payments or other allowance funds such amounts as may be necessary to effect reimbursement within a period not exceeding 24 months from date of the first expenditure under the given authority.
§ 117.17
Inactive surplus funds accounts.
When the balance of surplus funds to the credit of an adult Indian is less than $300 and when there is no likelihood of its increase within 90 days, the superintendent may disburse the entire balance to the Indian owner for his unrestricted use.
§ 117.18
Withdrawal and payment of segregated trust funds.
The withdrawal and payment of segregated trust funds will be made only upon application and satisfactory evidence that the withdrawal and payment of such funds would be to the best interest of the Indian in view of all the circumstances shown to exist. The segregated trust funds of an Indian under guardianship or an Indian under 21 years of age shall not be released and paid except to a guardian appointed by a proper court and after the filing of a bond approved by the court conditioned upon the faithful handling of the funds. Applications for the withdrawal and payment of segregated trust funds must be made upon the forms prescribed by the Secretary for that purpose.
§ 117.19
Debts of Indians.
No indebtedness of Indians will be paid from their funds under the control or supervision of the Secretary unless authorized in writing and obligated against their accounts by the superintendent or some other designated employee except in cases of emergency involving the protection or preservation of life or property, which emergency must be clearly shown. With this exception, no authorization or obligation against the account of any Indian for indebtedness incurred by him shall be made by the superintendent unless specifically authorized by the regulations in this part.
§ 117.20
Purchase orders.
Purchase orders may be issued by the superintendent for expenditures authorized by the regulations in this part
or for expenditures specifically authorized by the Commissioner. When necessary to prevent hardship or suffering, purchase orders may be issued by the superintendent against the future income of an Indian in an amount not to exceed 80 percent of the anticipated quarterly payment. The payment of purchase orders issued against future income shall be contingent upon the availability of funds.
§ 117.21
Fees and expenses of attorneys.
When payment of an attorney fee for services to an Indian is to be made from his surplus funds, the employment of the attorney by the Indian must be approved in advance. All fees will be determined on a quantum merit basis and paid upon completion of the services. The superintendent may approve the employment of an attorney, determine the fee, and disburse the surplus funds of the Indian in payment thereof when the fee does not exceed $500. Upon application by the Indian and upon the presentation of properly authenticated vouchers, the superintendent may disburse the surplus funds of the Indian in an amount not to exceed $200 in payment of necessary expenses incurred by the attorney.
§ 117.22
Disbursements to legal guardians.
Any disbursement authorized to be made to an Indian by the regulations of this part may, when the Indian is under guardianship, be made by the superintendent to the guardian. All expenditures by a guardian of the funds of his ward must be approved in writing by the court and the superintendent.
§ 117.23
Transactions between guardian and ward.
Business dealings between the guardian and his ward involving the sale or purchase of any property, real or personal, by the guardian to or from the ward, or to or from any store, company or organization in which the guardian has a direct interest or concern or contrary to the policy of the Department and shall not be approved by the superintendent without specific authority from the Commissioner.
§ 117.24
Compensation for guardians and their attorneys.
(a) The superintendent may approve compensation for services rendered by the guardian of an Indian on an annual basis, the amount of the compensation to be determined by application of the following schedule to the moneys collected by the guardian:
First $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 10 percent.
Second $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 9 percent.
Third $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 8 percent.
Fourth $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 7 percent.
Fifth $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 6 percent.
Sixth $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 5 percent.
Seventh $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 4 percent.
Eighth $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 3 percent.
Ninth $1,000 or portion thereof, not to exceed 2 percent.
All above $9,000 not to exceed 1 percent.
(b) Balance carried forward from previous reports and moneys received by a guardian or his attorney as compensation shall be excluded in determining the compensation of the guardian or his attorney.
(c) The attorney for a guardian shall be allowed compensation in an amount equal to one-half of the amount allowed the guardian under the foregoing schedule except when such attorney is himself the guardian and acting as his own attorney, in which event he shall be allowed a fee of not to exceed one-fourth of the amount allowed the guardian under the foregoing schedule in addition to the fee as guardian.
(d) The superintendent may in his discretion permit the guardian to collect rentals from restricted city or town properties belonging to his ward.
§ 117.25
Charges for services to Indians.
The superintendent shall make the following charges for services to Indians: Five per cent of all interest and non-liquidating dividends received from all types of securities, including stocks, bonds, and mortgages held in trust for individual Indians and interest on group investments. Such fees
shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the fund “Proceeds of Oil and Gas Leases, Royalties, etc., Osage Reservation, Oklahoma”.
§ 117.26
Expenses incurred pending qualification of an executor or administrator.
Pending the qualification of the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased Indian of one-half or more Indian blood who did not have a certificate of competency at the time of his death, the superintendent may authorize the extension of credit for the following purposes, subject to allowance of claims by the executor or administrator and approval thereof by the court:
(a) Funeral expenses, including the cost of a funeral feast, in an amount not to exceed $1,000.
(b) Necessary expenses in hearings before the Osage Agency involving the approval or disapproval of last wills and testaments.
(c) Expenses necessary to preserve restricted property.
§ 117.27
Custody of funds pending administration of estates.
(a)
Estates of Indians of less than one-half Indian blood and estates of Indians who had certificates of competency.
Upon the death of an Indian of less than one-half Indian blood or an Indian who had a certificate of competency, the superintendent shall pay to the executor or administrator of the estate all moneys and securities, other than segregated trust funds to the credit of the Indian and all funds which accrue pending administration of the estate.
(b)
Estates of Indians of one-half or more Indian blood who did not have certificates of competency.
Upon the death of an Indian of one-half or more Indian blood who did not have a certificate of competency at the time of his death, the following classes of funds, less any amount hypothecated for the payment of taxes as provided in § 117.2 shall be paid by the superintendent to the executor or administrator of the estate:
(1) Allowance funds to the credit of the Indian.
(2) Any quarterly payment authorized prior to the death of the Indian.
(3) Interest on segregated trust funds and deposits computed to the date of death.
(4) Rentals and income from restricted lands collected after the death of the Indian which were due and payable to the Indian prior to his death.
Except as provided in § 117.28, the superintendent shall not pay to the executor or administrator any surplus funds to the credit of the Indian or any funds, other than those listed in paragraphs (b) (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section which accrue pending administration of the estate.
§ 117.28
Payment of claims against estates.
The superintendent may disburse to the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased Indian of one-half or more Indian blood who did not have a certificate of competency at the time of his death sufficient funds out of the estate to pay the following classes of claims approved by the court:
(a) Debts authorized by the superintendent during the lifetime of the Indian.
(b) Expenses incurred pending the qualifications of an executor or administrator under authority contained in § 117.26.
(c) Expenses of administration, including court costs, premium on bond of executor or administrator, transcript fees and appraiser fees.
(d) Living expenses incurred within 90 days immediately preceding the date of death of the Indian.
(e) Allowance for reasonable living expenses each month for 12 months to a surviving spouse who is entitled to participate in the distribution of the estate and who is in need of such support.
(f) Allowance for reasonable living expenses each month for 12 months for each child of the decedent under 21 years of age who is entitled to participate in the distribution of the estate and who is in need of such support.
(g) Insurance premiums and license fees on restricted property.
(h) Not to exceed $1,000 for the preservation and upkeep of restricted property including the services of a caretaker when necessary.
(i) Debts incurred during the lifetime of the Indian but not authorized by the superintendent, if found by the Commissioner to be just and payable. The superintendent shall disburse no funds to an executor or administrator for the payment of the foregoing classes of claims unless the executor or administrator has no other funds in his hands available for the payment of such claims.
[22 FR 10554, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 35 FR 10005, June 18, 1970. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 117.29
Sale of improvements.
The superintendent may approve the sale of improvements on restricted Indian lands when such improvements are appraised at not more than $500 and when the owner has submitted a written request that the sale be made and a statement that the improvements can no longer be used by him. The proceeds of all such sales shall be deposited to the credit of the Indian as surplus funds. Improvements consisting of buildings, etc., located on property within the Osage villages of Pawhuska, Hominy, and Grayhorse may, upon approval of the superintendent, be disposed of to other Osage Indians. The superintendent may disburse the surplus funds of the purchaser to consummate the transaction. Sale of such improvements to non-Indian or non-Osage Indians must be approved by the Commissioner.
§ 117.30
Sale of personal property.
The superintendent may approve the sale of restricted personal property other than livestock. The superintendent may also approve the sale of livestock when authorized so to do by special or general instructions from the Commissioner. The proceeds from the sale of personal property other than livestock shall be deposited to the credit of the Indian as surplus funds unless the surplus funds from which said property was purchased have been reimbursed from allowance funds, in which case the proceeds from such sale shall be disbursed as allowance funds. If partial reimbursement only has been made, such portion of the proceeds of sale as may be necessary to complete the reimbursable agreement shall be deposited to the credit of the Indian as surplus funds and the balance, if any, shall be disbursed as allowance funds. The proceeds from the sale of livestock shall be deposited in conformity with general or specific instructions from the Commissioner.
§ 117.31
Removal of restrictions from personal property.
The superintendent may relinquish title to personal property (other than livestock) held by the United States in trust for the Indian when to do so will enable the Indian to use the property as part payment in the purchase of other personal property and when the remainder of the purchase price is to be made from other than surplus funds of the Indian.
§ 117.32
Funds of Indians of other tribes.
The funds of restricted non-Osage Indians, both adults and minors, residing within the jurisdiction of the Osage Agency, derived from sources within the Osage Nation and collected through the Osage Agency, may be disbursed by the superintendent, subject to the condition that all payments to third persons, including taxes and insurance premiums, shall be made upon the written authorization of the individual whose funds are involved, if an adult, and upon the written authorization of the parent or guardian, if a minor. The funds of restricted non-Osage Indians who do not reside within the jurisdiction of the Osage Agency shall be transferred to the superintendent of the jurisdiction within which the Indian resides, to be disbursed under regulations of the receiving agency.
§ 117.33
Signature of illiterates.
An Indian who cannot write shall be required to endorse checks payable to his order and sign receipts or other documents by making an imprint of the ball of the right thumb (or the left, if he has lost his right) after his name. This imprint shall be clear and distinct, showing the central whorl and striations and witnessed by two reputable persons whose addresses shall be given opposite or following their names. An Indian may sign by marking “X” before two witnesses where he is
unable to attach his thumb mark for physical reasons.
§ 117.34
Financial status of Indians confidential.
The financial status of Indians shall be regarded as confidential and shall not be disclosed except to the owner of the account or his authorized agent, unless authorized in advance by the Commissioner.
§ 117.35
Appeals.
Any decision by the superintendent may be appealed to the area director, any decision by the area director may be appealed to the Commissioner, and any decision by the Commissioner may be appealed to the Secretary.
Pt. 122

# PART 122—MANAGEMENT OF OSAGE JUDGMENT FUNDS FOR EDUCATION
Sec.
122.1
Purpose and scope.
122.2
Definitions.
122.3
Information collection.
122.4
Establishment of the Osage Tribal Education Committee.
122.5
Selection/nomination process for committee members.
122.6
Duties of the Osage Tribal Education Committee.
122.7
Budget.
122.8
Administrative costs for management of the fund.
122.9
Annual report.
122.10
Appeal.
122.11
Applicability.

# Authority:
86 Stat. 1295, 98 Stat. 3103 (25 U.S.C. 331 note).

# Source:
54 FR 34155, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 122.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this part is to set forth procedures and guidelines to govern the use of authorized funds in education programs for the benefit of Osage Tribal members, along with application requirements and procedures used by those eligible persons.
(b) The Osage Tribe by act of Congress, October 27, 1972 (25 U.S.C. 883, 86 Stat. 12950, as amended by Pub. L. 98-605) on October 30, 1984, provides that $1 million, together with other funds which revert to the Osage Tribe, may be advanced, expended, invested, or reinvested for the purpose of financing an education program of benefit to the Osage Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma, with said program to be administered as authorized by the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 122.2
Definitions.
Act
means Osage Tribe by Act of Congress, October 27, 1972 (25 U.S.C. 883, 86 Stat. 1295), as amended by Pub. L. 98-605.
Allottee
means a person whose name appears on the roll of Osage Tribe of Indians approved by the Secretary of the Interior on April 11, 1908, pursuant to the Act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 539).
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs.
Osage Tribal Education Committee
means the committee selected to administer the provisions of this part as specified by § 122.6.
Reverted funds
means the unpaid portions of the per capita distribution fund, as provided by the Act, which were not distributed because the funds were:
(1) Unclaimed within the period specified by the Act; or
(2) For an amount totaling less than $20 due an individual from one or more shares of one or more Osage allottees.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department of the Interior or his/her authorized representative.
§ 122.3
Information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements contained in §§ 122.6 and 122.9 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance numbers 1076-0098 and 1076-0106, respectively. The information collected in § 122.6 is used to determine the eligibility of Osage Indian student applicants for educational assistance grants. The information collected in § 122.9 provides summary review for program evaluation and program planning. Response to the information collections is required to obtain a benefit in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 883.
(b) Public reporting burden for this information collection is estimated to average 30 minutes per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources,
gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Information Collection Clearance Officer, Room 337 SIB, 18th
C Streets, NW., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1076-0106), Washington DC 20503.
§ 122.4
Establishment of the Osage Tribal Education Committee.
(a) The Osage Tribe, to maintain its right of Tribal autonomy, shall, at the direction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, establish the Osage Tribal Education Committee (OTEC) to fulfill the responsibilities and provisions of this part as set out in § 122.6.
(b) This committee shall be composed of seven (7) members. Five (5) of the members shall be of Osage blood or descendents of Osage, and two (2) from the education staff of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(1) Of the five Osage members, at least three shall be legal residents and/or live within a 20-mile radius of one of the three Osage Indian villages. Of these, at least one member shall reside within the specified radius of the Pawhuska Indian village; at least one member shall reside within the specified radius of the Hominy Indian village; and at least one member shall reside within the specified radius of the Greyhorse Indian village.
(2) The two remaining Osage committee members will be members at large.
§ 122.5
Selection/nomination process for committee members.
(a) Selection of the five (5) OTEC members shall be made by the Assistant Secretary in accordance with the following:
(1) Any adult person of Osage Indian blood who is an allottee or a descendant of an allottee is eligible to serve on the Osage Tribal Education Committee.
(2) Nominees for committee membership shall include a brief statement of interest and qualifications for serving on the committee.
(b) Nominations may be made by any Osage organization, including the Osage village communities of Greyhorse, Hominy and Pawhuska, by requesting its candidates to follow procedures outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(c) Nominations shall be delivered by registered mail to the following address: Osage Tribal Education Committee, c/o Area Education Programs Administrator, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Muskogee Area Office—Room 152, 5th
W, Okmulgee, Muskogee, Oklahoma 74401.
(d) A Nominee Selection Committee composed of OTEC members so designated by the Assistant Secretary will review all nominations. Upon completion of this process, the Nominee Selection Committee will forward its recommendations for final consideration to the Assistant Secretary.
(e) Each member shall be sworn in for a four year term. At the discretion of the Assistant Secretary, members may succeed themselves with a recommendation for reappointment from the Nominee Selection Committee.
(f) The Assistant Secretary may, until a vacancy is filled, appoint an individual to serve for a temporary period not to exceed 120 days.
§ 122.6
Duties of the Osage Tribal Education Committee.
(a) For the purpose of providing financial assistance to eligible Osage applicants for educational assistance, the Osage Tribal Education Committee shall maintain an office and retain all official records at the Bureau of Indian Affairs offices located at the Federal Building, Muskogee, Oklahoma.
(b) The Osage Tribal Education Committee shall be responsible for implementing an overall plan of operation consistent with the policy of Indian self-determination which incorporates a systematic sequential process whereby all student applications for financial aid are rated and ranked simultaneously to enable a fair distribution of available funds.
(1) All applicants shall be rated by a point system appropriate to applications for education assistance. After all
applications are rated, the Osage Tribal Education Committee will rank the applications in a descending order for award purposes. No awards shall be made until all applications are rated against the point system.
(2) Monetary awards shall be for fixed amounts as determined by the Osage Tribal Education Committee. The fixed amounts shall be itemized in the committee's annual budgetary request, and the monetary award amounts shall be consistent with the fixed amounts itemized in the approved budget.
(3) Payment of the monetary awards shall be made directly to the student, with half of the amount payable on or before September 15 and the second half payable on or before February 15, provided the student is successfully enrolled in an accredited institution of higher education and meeting the institution's requirement for passing work.
(4) No student will be funded beyond 10 semesters or five academic years, not to include summer sessions, nor shall any student with a baccalaureate degree be funded for an additional undergraduate degree.
§ 122.7
Budget.
(a) By August 1 of each year, the Osage Tribal Education Committee will submit a proposed budget to the Assistant Secretary or to his/her designated representative for formal approval. Unless the Assistant Secretary or his/her designated representative informs the committee in writing of budget restrictions by September 1, the proposed budget is considered to be accepted.
(b) The investment principal, composed of the one million dollars appropriated by the Act and reverted funds, must be invested in a federally insured banking or savings institution or invested in obligations of the Federal Government. There are no provisions in this part which shall limit the right of the Osage Tribal Education Committee to withdraw interest earned from the investment principal; however, expenditures shall be made against only the interest generated from investment principal and reverted funds.
(c) All funds deposited will accumulate interest at a rate not less than that generally available for similar funds deposited at the same banking or savings institution or invested in the same obligations of the United States Government for the same period of time.
§ 122.8
Administrative costs for management of the fund.
Funds available for expenditures may be used by the Osage Tribal Education Committee in the performance of its duties and responsibilities. Recordkeeping is required and proposed expenditures are to be attached with the August 1 proposed annual budget to the Assistant Secretary or his/her designated representative.
§ 122.9
Annual report.
The Osage Tribal Education Committee shall submit an annual report on OMB approved Form 1076-0106, Higher Education Annual Report, to the Assistant Secretary or his/her designated representative on or before November 1, for the preceding 12 month period.
§ 122.10
Appeal.
The procedure for appealing any decision regarding the awarding of funds under this part shall be made in accordance with 25 CFR part 2, Appeals from Administrative Action.
§ 122.11
Applicability.
These regulations shall cease upon determination of the legal and appropriate body to administer the fund and upon the establishment of succeeding regulations.
Pt. 124

# PART 124—DEPOSITS OF PROCEEDS FROM LANDS WITHDRAWN FOR NATIVE SELECTION
Sec.
124.1
What is the purpose of this part?
124.2
Who should an agency or the State of Alaska contact for information?

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.;
Pub. L. 92-203, 85 Stat. 688; 25 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.;
Pub L. 103-402, 108 Stat. 4239.

# Source:
70 FR 40661, July 14, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 124.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part provides contact information on depositing proceeds from contracts, leases, permits, rights-of-way, or easements pertaining to lands withdrawn for Native selection under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act. All Federal agencies and the State of Alaska must use this part when making deposits of this type.
§ 124.2
Who should an agency or the State of Alaska contact for information?
When a Federal agency or the State of Alaska receives proceeds covered by this part, it must deposit the proceeds to the credit of the United States Department of the Interior, Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians. For further information including depositing instructions, contact: Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Attention: Division of Trust Funds Accounting, 4400 Masthead Street NE., Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109.
Pt. 134

# PART 134—PARTIAL PAYMENT CONSTRUCTION CHARGES ON INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Sec.
134.1
Partial reimbursement of irrigation charges; 5 percent per annum of cost of system, June 30, 1920.
134.2
Landowners financially unable to pay.
134.3
Period for payments extended.
134.4
Annual payment reduced.
134.4a
Assessment and collection of additional construction costs.
134.5
Payments to disbursing officer.
134.6
“Owner” defined.
134.7
Modifications.

# Authority:
Secs. 1, 3, 36 Stat. 270, 272, as amended; 25 U.S.C. 385. Interpret or apply sec. 1, 41 Stat. 409; 25 U.S.C. 386.

# Source:
22 FR 10643, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 134.1
Partial reimbursement of irrigation charges; 5 percent per annum of cost of system, June 30, 1920.
In pursuance of the act of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 409; 25 U.S.C. 386), regulations governing partial payment of construction charges on Indian irrigation projects, with the exception of certain ones mentioned therein, where approved by the Department June 21, 1920, and require that each owner of irrigable land under any irrigation system constructed for the benefit of Indians under provisions of law requiring reimbursement of the cost of such system and to which land, water for irrigation purposes can be delivered from such system, shall pay, on or before November 15, 1920, a sum equal to 5 percent of the per acre cost, as of June 30, 1920, of the construction of the system under which such land is situated. The per acre cost of a given system as of June 30, 1920, shall be determined by dividing the total amount expended for construction purposes on such system up to that day by the total area of land to which water for irrigation purposes can be delivered on that date; and on November 15 of each year following the year 1920, until further notice, the land owners, as therein prescribed, shall pay 5 percent of the per acre construction cost as of June 30, of the current year, such per acre cost to be determined by dividing the cost of the system to June 30 of that year by the total area of land to which water for irrigation purposes can be delivered from the system on that date. Provision is contained that no payments shall be required under the regulations in behalf of lands still in process of allotment or prior to the issuance of the first or trust patent therefor, nor for lands reserved for school, agency, or other administrative purposes where the legal title still remains in the United States.
§ 134.2
Landowners financially unable to pay.
Considerable difficulty has been encountered in collecting charges under the regulations in this part owing to the fact that Indians have been financially unable to pay the charges, the result being that the construction charges have accrued against the lands and in cases where the land is sold for the benefit of the allottee or his heirs under the regulations, the purchaser is to pay the accrued and future irrigation charges which make it difficult in some instances, to sell the land at as favorable terms as might otherwise be secured.
§ 134.3
Period for payments extended.
Furthermore, in recent legislation dealing with specific projects in the Bureau and also all reclamation projects the policy has been to extend the payment of such charges over a longer period of years.
§ 134.4
Annual payment reduced.
In view of these conditions the regulations governing this matter are hereby modified so as to distribute the unaccrued installments over a period of time so that 2
1/2
percent of the total amount yet due shall be due and payable on November 15 of each year until further notice. You shall accordingly ascertain the per acre cost after deducting the amount of the accrued charges and take 2
1/2
percent of that amount and a like sum each year so that the amount of the annual installments will be the same each year. Superintendents are obligated to submit all proposed lists of sales involving allotments containing irrigable allotments to the project or supervising engineer for checking, as to the irrigable acreage and amounts of unpaid construction, operation, and maintenance charges against such allotments. Each sale forwarded to the Bureau for action shall be accompanied by contract executed on Form 5-462b where irrigable acreage is involved and after approval thereof a copy of contract on said form shall be sent to the project engineer for his records and the charges paid by the purchaser shall be turned over to the disbursing agent for credit and deposit as instructed in the next paragraph. The regulations in this part shall not apply to lands in the Wapato project, on the Yakima Indian Reservation, nor to the irrigation projects on the Blackfeet, Fort Peck, Flathead, and Crow Reservations, Montana, for which special regulations have been issued nor to the Fort Hall Reservation, Idaho, or the San Carlos project, Arizona.
1
1
The special regulations for Wapato, Fort Peck, and Flathead, were not codified. Operations of the Blackfeet project were discontinued by the Bureau, July 20, 1938, effective September 30, 1933.

# Cross References:
For special regulations applying to San Carlos project, see part 137 of this chapter. For further information concerning Form 5-462b, see part 159 of this chapter.
§ 134.4a
Assessment and collection of additional construction costs.
(a) Upon the completion of the construction of an Indian irrigation project, or unit thereof, subsequent to the determination of the partial per acre construction assessment rate which was fixed prior to July 1, 1957, pursuant to § 134.4 the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative shall determine such additional construction cost and distribute that cost on a per acre basis against all of the irrigable lands of the project, or unit thereof, and
1/40
th of such per acre additional construction cost thus determined shall be assessed and collected annually from the non-Indian landowner of the project, or unit, thereof. The first installment shall be due and payable on November 15 of the year following the completion of such additional construction work or, if such additional construction work on the project, or unit thereof, has been completed prior to July 1, 1957, and the per acre annual rate determined, the first installment of the additional construction cost to be repaid by such non-Indian landowners shall be due and payable on November 15, 1958. This annual per acre rate shall be in addition to, and run concurrently with, the per acre construction rate assessed annually under § 134.4.
(b) Project lands in Indian ownership are not subject to assessment for their proportionate share of the per acre construction cost of the project, or unit thereof, until after the Indian title to the land has been extinguished. At that time the total annual per acre assessment rate against non-Indian lands of the project, or unit thereof, shall be assessed against the former Indian lands for each and every acre of irrigable land to which water can be delivered through the project works, beginning on November 15 of the year following the extinguishment of the Indian title to the land and on November 15 of each year thereafter over a forty year period. In cases where the Indian title to project land was extinguished prior to July 1, 1957, the assessment
rate shall be due and payable on November 15, 1958.
§ 134.5
Payments to disbursing officer.
Payments under this part shall be made to the disbursing officer for the supervising engineer of the Indian Irrigation Service having jurisdiction over the irrigation system under which the land for which payment is made may lie. The sum so collected will then, after proper credit has been made to the land for which collected, be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the respective funds used in constructing irrigation systems toward which reimbursement shall have been made.
§ 134.6
“Owner” defined.
The word “owner” as used in this part shall be construed to include any person, Indian or white, or any firm, partnership, corporation, association, or other organization to whom title to the land capable of irrigation, as provided in the act of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 409; 25 U.S.C. 386), has passed, either by fee or trust patent, or otherwise.
§ 134.7
Modifications.
The act of July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564; 25 U.S.C. 386a), cancelled all irrigation assessments for construction costs against lands in Indian ownership which were unpaid at that date and deferred all future assessments for construction costs until the Indian title to the land shall have been extinguished.
Pt. 135

# PART 135—CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS, CROW INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT

# Subpart A—Charges Assessed Against Irrigation District Lands
Sec.
135.1
Contracts.
135.2
Annual rate of assessments.
135.3
Annual assessments.
135.4
Time of payment.
135.5
Penalty.
135.6
Refusal of water delivery.

# Subpart B—Charges Assessed Against Non-Indian Lands Not Included in an Irrigation District
135.20
Private contract lands; assessments.
135.21
Time of payment.
135.22
Penalty.
135.23
Refusal of water delivery.

# Authority:
Sec. 15, 60 Stat. 338.

# Source:
22 FR 10644, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.

# Subpart A—Charges Assessed Against Irrigation District Lands
§ 135.1
Contracts.
Under provisions of the act of Congress approved June 28, 1946 (60 Stat. 333-338), contracts were executed June 28, 1951, by the United States with the Lower Little Horn and Lodge Grass Irrigation District and the Upper Little Horn Irrigation District providing for the payment, over a period of 40 years, by each of the Districts of its respective share of the sum of $210,726 expended for the construction of the Willow Creek storage works on account of non-Indian lands within the Districts entitled to share in the storage water, directly or by substitution.
§ 135.2
Annual rate of assessments.
Within the Lower Little Horn and Lodge Grass Irrigation District there are 3,196.8 acres for which the District is obligated by contract to pay its proper share of the total construction costs. Within the Upper Little Horn Irrigation District there are 1,554.7 acres for which the District is obligated by contract to pay its proper share of the total construction costs. There are 3,237.6 acres, more or less, covered by contracts with private landowners, obligating such owners to pay their proper share of such construction costs. The total per acre charge against all such lands is $26.38. This amounts to an annual per acre rate of $0.6595. For the purpose of this notice the annual per acre rate is hereby fixed at $0.66. This annual per acre rate of assessment will continue for a 40-year period within which the total amount of construction costs of $210,726 is to be repaid without
interest. The amount of each annual installment chargeable against each of the Districts for the acreage covered by their respective contracts shall be determined by multiplying the total acreage, under each contract entitled to Willow Creek storage rights, either directly or by subsituation, by the per acre annual rate.
§ 135.3
Annual assessments.
Notice is hereby given of an annual assessment of $2,108.05 to be repaid by the Lower Little Horn and Lodge Grass Irrigation District for the 3,196.8 acres of irrigable land of the District, and an annual assessment of $1,025.06 to be repaid by the Upper Little Horn Irrigation District for the 1,554.7 acres of irrigable land of the District. Against the amounts due annually by the Districts under this notice, there shall be allowed any credits due under section 6 of the act of June 28, 1946. Credits due on behalf of any land shall be reflected by the respective Districts when placing against such land the annual assessment on the tax rolls.
§ 135.4
Time of payment.
Annual assessments shall be paid by the Districts to the United States, one-half thereof on or before February 1 and one-half thereof on or before July 1 following, of each year commencing with the calendar year 1952.
§ 135.5
Penalty.
To all assessments not paid on the due date, there shall be added a penalty of one-half of one percent per month or fraction thereof, from the due date so long as the delinquency continues.
§ 135.6
Refusal of water delivery.
The right is reserved to the United States to refuse the delivery of water to each of the said Irrigation Districts in the event of default in the payment of assessments, including penalties on account of delinquencies.

# Subpart B—Charges Assessed Against Non-Indian Lands Not Included in an Irrigation District
§ 135.20
Private contract lands; assessments.
In addition to 4,751.5 acres of non-Indian land included within the two irrigation Districts dealt with in subpart A, there are 3,237.6 acres of land, more or less, in non-Indian ownership under private ditches, covered by repayment contracts executed pursuant to the act of June 28, 1946 (60 Stat. 333-338), obligating such owners to pay their proper share of such construction costs. The total per acre charge against all such lands is $26.38. This amounts to an annual per acre rate of $0.6595. For the purposes of this notice the annual per acre rate is hereby fixed at $0.66. This annual rate of assessment will continue for a 40-year period within which the total amount of construction cost of $210,726 is to be repaid without interest. The amount of each annual installment chargeable against the lands covered by each of the several contracts with individual landowners whose lands are served under private ditches, shall be determined by multiplying the total acreage, under each contract entitled to Willow Creek storage rights, either directly or by substitution, by the per acre annual rate. Against the amounts due annually by the individual landowners whose lands are served by private ditches, under this notice there shall be allowed any credits due under section 6 of the act of June 28, 1946. Credits due on behalf of any land shall be reflected in any statement submitted to the landowners.
§ 135.21
Time of payment.
The amount of each annual installment, payable under the private landowner contracts, determined as provided in this part shall be paid by the landowners to the United States, on or before November 15 of each year commencing with the calendar year 1951.
§ 135.22
Penalty.
To all assessments not paid on the due date there shall be added a penalty
of one-half of one percent per month or fraction thereof, from the due date so long as the delinquency continues.
§ 135.23
Refusal of water delivery.
The right is reserved to refuse the delivery of water to any landowner in the event of default in the payment of assessments, including penalties on account of delinquencies.
Pt. 136

# PART 136—FORT HALL INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT, IDAHO
Sec.
136.1
Repayment contracts.
136.2
Construction costs.
136.3
Repayment of construction costs.

# Authority:
Sec. 9, 46 Stat. 1063.

# Source:
22 FR 10645, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 136.1
Repayment contracts.
A rehabilitation program was established on the Fort Hall Unit of the Fort Hall Project in 1936. Based upon the estimated construction costs, contracts were signed by all non-Indian landowners within the project, including such landowners within the Little Indian Unit, now a part of the Fort Hall Unit. Under the terms of their contracts, the landowners agreed to repay to the Government their pro rata share, on an acreage basis, of all expenditures for construction and other necessary improvements for carrying out the approved program, payments not to exceed $7.50 per acre, based upon an estimated expenditure of $450,000.00 for a project then considered as covering approximately 60,000 acres.
§ 136.2
Construction costs.
The program of rehabilitation has now been completed at a cost of $419,186.52. This amount, chargeable on an equal per acre basis against 60,000 acres, amounts to a rate of $6.986 per acre, which rate is hereby determined to be the per acre cost to be repaid to the United States under the 1936 contracts.
§ 136.3
Repayment of construction costs.
Under the terms of the contracts, the landowners agreed to repay the construction cost in forty (40) equal annual installments. Therefore, the annual per acre installment is hereby fixed at seventeen and one-half cents (17
1/2
cents) per acre, due and payable on December 1st of each year, the first payment being due on December 1, 1955. Under section 4 of the repayment contracts of the landowners and the act of March 10, 1928 (45 Stat. 210), the charges remain a lien against the lands until paid.
Pt. 137

# PART 137—REIMBURSEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS, SAN CARLOS INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT, ARIZONA
Sec.
137.1
Water supply.
137.2
Availability of water.
137.3
Construction charges.
137.4
Future charges.
137.5
Construction costs limited.
137.6
Power development.
137.7
Private ownership defined.
137.8
Indian lands excluded.

# Authority:
Sec. 5, 43 Stat. 476.

# Source:
22 FR 10645, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 137.1
Water supply.
The engineering report dealt with in section 1 of the act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 475) and other available records show that the storage capacity of the San Carlos reservoir created by the Coolidge Dam and the water supply therefor over a period of years will provide for the irrigation of only 80,000 acres of lands in Indian and public or private ownership within the San Carlos irrigation project, the balance of the water supply needed for the additional 20,000 acres of the project to be provided for by recaptured and return flow water and by means of pumping the underground supply. The cost of providing the proposed supply and of operating the works for this latter acreage to be equally distributed over the entire 100,000 acres of the project regardless of where the works are placed and operated.
§ 137.2
Availability of water.
Pursuant to section 3 of the act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 475), requiring the Secretary of the Interior by public notice to announce when water is actually available for lands in private ownership under the project and the amount of the construction charges per irrigable acre against the same which charges shall be payable in annual installments as provided for therein, this public notice, of which § 137.1 is made a part hereof, is hereby given:
The date when a reasonable water supply is actually available for lands in private ownership under the San Carlos irrigation project is hereby declared to be the 1st day of December 1932.
§ 137.3
Construction charges.
Each acre of land in private ownership of said project is hereby charged with $95.25 of construction cost assessable thereto at the date hereof (Dec. 1, 1932), which sum is based upon 50,000 acres of such privately owned lands, making a total charge or assessment due from the owners thereof of $4,762,250 on this date (Dec. 1, 1932), excluding the cost of operation and maintenance for the calendar year of 1933 which may be carried into construction cost as provided for by section 3 of the act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 476), and also excluding interest at the rate of 4 percent which is charged against such lands by said act. Of the 50,000 acres constituting the lands in private ownership within the said project only 46,107.49 acres have at this date (Dec. 1, 1932) actually been designated as coming within the project. Should this present designated area be not increased within a reasonable time herefrom and prior to the due date of the first installment of the charge fixed in this section, namely, on December 1, 1935, so as to bring the total designated area up to the 50,000 acres, the per acre charge fixed in this section shall be proportionately increased against the then designated area so as to assure reimbursement of the total indebtedness due the Government by the owners of the lands in private ownership from the lesser designated acreage.
§ 137.4
Future charges.
The payment of said construction cost and costs of future operation and maintenance of said project as provided for in said section 3 of the act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 476), as supplemented or amended and such contingent project liabilities which may be incurred in accordance with the provisions of said repayment contract shall be made in accordance with the provisions of said act of June 7, 1924, as supplemented or amended and the repayment contract by and between the San Carlos irrigation and drainage district and the Secretary of the Interior bearing date of June 8, 1931; the said construction cost incurred subsequent to this public notice assessable against the lands in private ownership and costs of operation and maintenance assessed against such privately owned lands within the project for the first year after this public notice to be included in the construction cost and such contingent project liabilities which may be incurred in accordance with provisions of the repayment contract shall also be repaid to the Government pursuant to the terms of said act of June 7, 1924, as supplemented or amended, and the repayment contract and this public notice.
§ 137.5
Construction costs limited.
The repayment contract
1
with the San Carlos irrigation and drainage district, page 13 thereof, contains the following:
1
Contract available at the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Washington, D.C.
In accordance with the foregoing the costs of the San Carlos project as fixed by the public notice to be issued as aforesaid, unless further sums shall be agreed to by the Secretary of the Interior and the district after the execution of this instrument, may amount to but shall not exceed the sum of $9,556,313.77, except that said total may be exceeded by the inclusion of any sums expended to safeguard the project as hereinabove provided for, and any sums expended on account of contingent liabilities as in the next paragraph hereof provided.
The foregoing and subsequent statements of project costs, the district's shares of which are to be repaid hereunder, unless otherwise provided by Congress more favorably to the lands of the project, may be increased
by the addition of sums not now fixed as project charges but which possibly constitute contingent project liabilities incurred after the date of the San Carlos Act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 476), or incurred on account of the Florence-casa Grande project, and so may become project charges by the judgment of courts of competent jurisdiction or of other proper authority.
The limitations therein fixed has approximately been reached, there remaining but $32,815.02 yet to be expended on project works before reaching that limitation. Upon the expenditure of this additional sum there shall be no further expenditures of funds for construction, operation and maintenance of the San Carlos project so far as the private lands are concerned until the San Carlos irrigation and drainage district shall, through appropriate action, authorize pursuant to the terms of the said repayment contract such additional expenditures. This limitation does not apply to project expenditures for the extension of the distributing and pumping system regardless of where they may arise. This class of expenditures being excepted from the limitation on expenditures contained in the said repayment contract by section 14, page 10, thereof, which section is known as the “Equalization of Expenditures.”
§ 137.6
Power development.
The cost of the power development at the Coolidge Dam is hereby fixed at $735,000. The net revenues derived from the operation of this power development shall be disposed of as required by the terms and conditions of the act of March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 210) as supplemented or amended.
§ 137.7
Private ownership defined.
The term “private ownership” used in this public notice includes all lands of the San Carlos irrigation project that have or may be designated by the Secretary of the Interior that are situated outside of the boundaries of the Gila River Indian Reservation.
§ 137.8
Indian lands excluded.
This public notice, with the exception of that part dealing with payment in advance each year of operation and maintenance charges against lands in Indian ownership operated under lease, does not apply in so far as payments are concerned to Indian lands within the project. The act of July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564; 25 U.S.C. 386a) defers the collection of construction costs from Indian owned lands so long as the title to such lands remains in the Indian ownership.
Pt. 138

# PART 138—REIMBURSEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS, AHTANUM UNIT, WAPATO INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT, WASHINGTON
Sec.
138.1
Construction costs and assessable acreage.
138.2
Repayment of construction costs.
138.3
Payments.
138.4
Deferment of assessments on lands remaining in Indian ownership.
138.5
Assessments after the Indian title has been extinguished.

# Authority:
Secs. 1, 3, 36 Stat. 270, 272, as amended; 25 U.S.C. 385.

# Source:
22 FR 10646, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 138.1
Construction costs and assessable acreage.
The construction program has been completed on the Ahtanum Unit of the Wapato Indian Irrigation Project and the construction costs have been established as $79,833.64. The area benefited by this development has been established at 4,765.2 acres. Under the requirements of the acts of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 409) and March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 210), these costs are to be repaid to the United States Treasury by the owners of the lands benefited.
§ 138.2
Repayment of construction costs.
The cost per acre under § 138.1 is, therefore, established at $16.7535. Under the provisions of the acts of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 409) and March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 210) is based on forty equal annual payments, the annual per acre assessment is hereby fixed at $0.42 per acre for the year 1957 and each succeeding year until the entire cost for each tract shall have been repaid to the United States Treasury. On those tracts where payments have been made pursuant to part 134 of this chapter, annual assessments beginning with the year 1957 at the rate of $0.42 per acre will be made until the entire cost of $16.7535 per acre shall have been repaid
to the United States Treasury. Landowners may pay at any time the total of the then remaining indebtedness. Under the act of March 10, 1928 (45 Stat. 210) the unpaid charges stand as a lien against the lands until paid.
[22 FR 10646, Dec. 24, 1957. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982; 48 FR 13414, Mar. 31, 1983]
§ 138.3
Payments.
Payments are due on December 31 of each year and shall be made to the official in charge of collections for the project.
§ 138.4
Deferment of assessments on lands remaining in Indian ownership.
In conformity with the act of July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564); 25 U.S.C. 386(a) no assessment shall be made on behalf of construction costs against Indian-owned land within the project until the Indian title thereto has been extinguished.
§ 138.5
Assessments after the Indian title has been extinguished.
Indian-owned lands passing to non-Indian ownership shall be assessed for construction costs and the first assessment shall be due on December 31 of the year that Indian title is extinguished. Assessments against this land will be at the annual rate of $0.42 per acre and shall be due as provided in § 138.3, and payable promptly thereafter until the total construction cost of $16.7535 per acre chargeable against the land has been paid in full.
Pt. 139

# PART 139—REIMBURSEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS, WAPATO-SATUS UNIT, WAPATO INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT, WASHINGTON
Sec.
139.1
Construction costs and assessable acreage.
139.2
Repayment of construction costs.
139.3
Payments.
139.4
Deferment of assessments on lands remaining in Indian ownership.
139.5
Assessments after the Indian title has been extinguished.

# Authority:
Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 409, 45 Stat. 210; 25 U.S.C. 386, 387.

# Source:
28 FR 6536, June 26, 1963, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 139.1
Construction costs and assessable acreage.
The construction program has been completed on the Wapato-Satus Unit of the Wapato Indian Irrigation Project, and the construction costs have been established by Designation Report dated August 1962 as $7,903,823.12 for the project and $1,499,073.62 for the “B” lands share of the construction costs in the Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs on the Yakima River. The area benefited by this development has been established at 136,559.59 acres divided into 79,025.68 acres of “A” land and 57,533.91 acres of “B” land. Under the requirements of the acts of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 409), and March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 210), these costs are to be repaid to the U.S. Treasury by the owners of the lands benefited.
§ 139.2
Repayment of construction costs.
The cost per acre of the construction under § 139.1 is, therefore, calculated at $57.8782 for “A” lands and $83.9337 for “B” lands in non-Indian ownership as established by Designation Report dated August 1962. Under the provisions of the acts cited in § 139.1 the annual per acre assessment for forty equal annual payments, is hereby fixed at $1.45 per acre for “A” lands and $2.10 per acre for “B” lands for the year 1962 and each succeeding year, until the entire cost for each tract shall have been repaid to the U.S. Treasury. On those tracts where payments have been made pursuant to uncodified special regulations, annual assessments beginning with the year 1962 at the rate of $1.45 per acre for “A” lands and $2.10 per acre for “B” lands will be made until the entire cost of $57.8782 per acre for “A” lands and $83.9337 per acre for “B” lands shall have been repaid to the U.S. Treasury. Landowners may pay at any time the total of the then remaining indebtedness. Under the act of March 10, 1928 (45 Stat. 210), the unpaid charges stand as a lien against the lands until paid.
§ 139.3
Payments.
Payments are due on December 31 of each year and shall be made to the official in charge of collections for the project.
§ 139.4
Deferment of assessments on lands remaining in Indian ownership.
In conformity with the act of July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564; U.S.C. 386(a)), no assessment shall be made on behalf of construction costs against Indian-owned land within the project until the Indian title thereto has been extinguished.
§ 139.5
Assessments after the Indian title has been extinguished.
Indian-owned lands passing to non-Indian ownership shall be assessed for construction costs and the first assessment shall be due on December 31 of the year that the Indian title is extinguished. The construction costs against this land will be established as provided by section 5 of the act of September 26, 1961 (75 Stat. 680). The annual per acre assessment rate will be determined by dividing the established construction cost per acre into forty equal payments. “B” lands will also be assessed for reservoir construction costs in the annual per-acre rate as established in the Designation Report dated August 1962. Assessments against this land will continue until the entire established construction costs shall have been repaid to the U.S. Treasury. Landowners may pay at any time the total of the then remaining indebtedness. Under the act of March 10, 1928 (45 Stat. 210), the unpaid charges stand as a lien against the lands until paid.
Pt. 140

# PART 140—LICENSED INDIAN TRADERS
Sec.
140.1
Sole power to appoint.
140.2
Presidential prohibition.
140.3
Forfeiture of goods.
140.5
Bureau of Indian Affairs employees not to contract or trade with Indians except in certain cases.
140.9
Application for license.
140.11
License period.
140.12
License renewal.
140.13
Power to close unlicensed stores.
140.14
Trade limited to specified premises.
140.15
License applicable for trading only by original licensee.
140.16
Trade in annuities or gratuities prohibited.
140.17
Tobacco sales to minors.
140.18
Intoxicating liquors.
140.19
Drugs.
140.21
Gambling.
140.22
Inspection of traders' prices.
140.23
Credit at trader's risk.
140.24
Cash payments only to Indians.
140.25
Trade in antiquities prohibited.
140.26
Infectious plants.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 437; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 261, 262, 264; sec. 5, 19 Stat. 200, sec. 1, 31 Stat. 1066, as amended; and sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross References:
For law and order regulations on Indian Reservations, see part 11 of this chapter. For regulations pertaining to business practices on Navajo, Hopi and Zuni reservations, see part 141 of this chapter. For additional regulation of certain employees trading with Indians, see 43 CFR part 20.735-28 and 29.

# Source:
22 FR 10670, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 140.1
Sole power to appoint.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs shall have the sole power and authority to appoint traders to the Indian tribes. Any person desiring to trade with the Indians on any reservation may, upon establishing the fact, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, that he is a proper person to engage in such trade, be permitted to do so under such rules and regulations as the Commissioner of Indian Affairs may prescribe.
§ 140.2
Presidential prohibition.
The President is authorized, whenever in his opinion the public interest may require, to prohibit the introduction of goods, or of any particular articles, into the country belonging to any Indian tribe, and to direct that all licenses to trade with such tribe be revoked, and all applications therefor rejected. No trader shall, so long as such prohibition exists, trade with any Indians of or for said tribe.
(R.S. 2132; 25 U.S.C. 263)
§ 140.3
Forfeiture of goods.
Any person other than an Indian of the full blood who shall attempt to reside in the Indian country, or on any Indian reservation, as a trader, or to introduce goods, or to trade therein, without a license, shall forfeit all merchandise offered for sale to the Indians or found in his possession, and shall moreover be liable to a penalty of $1,617:
Provided,
That this section shall not apply to any person residing among or trading with the Choctaws, Cherokee, Chickasaws, Creeks, or Seminoles, commonly called the Five Civilized Tribes:
And provided further,
That no white person shall be employed as a clerk by any Indian trader, except as such trade with said Five Civilized Tribes, unless first authorized so to do by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
[22 FR 10670, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7652, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7347, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13021, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18362, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 140.5
Bureau of Indian Affairs employees not to contract or trade with Indians except in certain cases.
(a) Definitions of terms as used in this part:
(1)
Indian
means any member of an Indian tribe recognized as eligible for the services provided by the Bureau of Indian Affairs who is residing on a Federal Indian Reservation, on land held in trust by the United States for Indians, or on land subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States. The term shall also include any such tribe and any Indian owned or controlled organization located on such a reservation or land.
(2)
Bureau
or the “Bureau of Indian Affairs” means the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, both in the Department of the Interior.
(3)
Employee
means an officer, employee, or agent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(4)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(5)
Contract
means any agreement made or under negotiation with any Indian for the purchase, transportation or delivery of goods or supplies.
(6)
Trading
means buying, selling, bartering, renting, leasing, permitting and any other transaction involving the acquisition of property or services.
(7)
Commercial trading
means any trading transaction where an employee engages in the business of buying or selling services or items which he/she is trading.
(b) With the exceptions provided in subsection (b) of section 437 of title 18 U.S. Code, section 437 provides that whoever, being an officer, employee, or agent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, has (other than as a lawful representative of the United States) any interest, in such officer, employee, or agent's name, or in the name of another person where such officer, employee, or agent benefits or appears to benefit from such interest:
(1) In any contract made or under negotiation with any Indian, for the purchase, transportation or delivery of goods or supplies for any Indian, or
(2) In any purchase or sale of any service or real or personal property (or any interest therein) from or to any Indian, or colludes with any person attempting to obtain any such contract, purchase, or sale, shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both, and shall be removed from office, notwithstanding any other provision of law concerning termination from Federal employment.
(c) The further subsections of this section authorize certain employees contracting and trading with Indians as authorized by the exceptions in section 437 of title 18 U.S. Code. All such contracting and trading is subject to the express provision of section 437 that none of the sales or purchases so authorized may be made if the purpose of any such sale, trade, or purchase is that of commercially selling, reselling, trading, or bartering such property.
(d)(1) Under authority granted by section 437(b)(1) of title 18 U.S. Code, employees of the Bureau of Indian Affairs may with the approval of an authorized officer of the Bureau, as designated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, purchase from or sell to an Indian any service or any real or personal
property, not held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, or any interest in such property. In addition, employees may purchase from Indians without approval from an authorized officer of the Bureau any non-trust or unrestricted personal property for home use or consumption the value of which property does not exceed $1000. Where the purchase or sale price is less than $1,000, employees may also purchase motor vehicles for their personal use from Indians or sell their personal motor vehicles to Indians without obtaining approval of such purchases or sales from an authorized officer of the Bureau. Approval must be obtained if the purchase or sale price is $1,000 or more.
(2) As used in paragraph (d)(1) of this section an authorized officer of the Bureau of Indian Affairs for employees on reservations and in agencies or in field service units shall be the superintendent or other officer in charge of the unit in which the employee is employed. The authorized officer for the superintendent or officer in charge is his or her immediate supervisor. The authorized officer for employees in area offices is the Area Director, and the authorized officer for an Area Director is his or her immediate supervisor. The authorized officer for employees in the Central Office is the Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs (Operations).
(e) No employee of the Bureau of Indian Affairs may have any interest in any purchase or sale involving property or funds which are either held in trust by the United States for Indians or which are purchased, sold, utilized, or received in connection with a contract or grant to an Indian from the Bureau if such employee is employed in the office or installation of the Bureau which recommends, approves, executes, or administers such transaction, grant, or contract on behalf of the United States, except that, as authorized by section 437(b)(1) of title 18 U.S. Code an employee of the Bureau may have such an interest if such purchase or sale is approved by an authorized officer of the Bureau, as designated in paragraphs (e) (3) to (5) of this section, and the conditions in (e) (1) and (2) of this section are satisfied to the extent to which they are applicable to the transaction concerned:
(1) The conveyance or granting of any interest in property held in trust or subject to restriction against alienation imposed by the United States is otherwise authorized by law.
(2) Trading by employees with Indians which involves property or funds which are either held in trust by the United States or are subject to restrictions against alienation imposed by the United States must be conducted on the basis of sealed bid or public auction. If the trading involves leases or sales of trust or restricted Indian land it must be conducted on the basis of sealed bids. Such requirements for sealed bid or public auction may only be waived by the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs on the basis of a full report showing:
(i) The need for the transaction,
(ii) The benefits accruing to both parties,
(iii) That the consideration for the proposed transaction shall be not less than the fair market value of the trust or restricted property or interest therein, unless the employee is involved in a transaction in accordance with § 152.25(c) or (d) or § 162.5(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this title or the employee is the recipient of a benefit for tribal members for which a uniform charge to all members is made, and
(iv) An affidavit as follows shall accompany each proposed transaction: “I (name) (title), swear (or affirm) that I have not exercised any undue influence nor used any special knowledge received by reason of my employment in the Bureau in obtaining the (grantor's, purchaser's, vendor's) consent to the instant transaction.”
(3) The authorized officer of the Bureau for employees employed on reservations, in agencies or service units is one who is not a relative by blood or marriage of the employee, and is not employed at the employee's reservation, agency or service unit. That officer must also be employed at not less than one grade level higher than such employee at the Washington, District of Columbia, Central Office or at an
Area Office other than that with authority over the employee's reservation, agency, or service unit.
(4) The authorized officer of the Bureau for employees employed in Area offices is one who is not a relative by blood or marriage of the employee, is not employed at the employee's area office, and must be employed at not less than one grade level higher than the employee at the Washington, District of Columbia, Central Office.
(5) The authorized officer of the Bureau for employees employed at the Washington, District of Columbia, Central Office is the Secretary.
(f) Except as provided in subsection (b)(2) of section 437 of title 18 U.S. Code as implemented by this section, nothing in the cited law shall be construed as preventing any employee of the Bureau who is an Indian, of whatever degree of Indian blood, from obtaining or receiving any benefit or benefits made available to Indians generally or to any member of his or her particular tribe, under any Act of Congress, nor to prevent any such employee who is an Indian from being a member of or receiving benefits by reason of his or her membership in any Indian tribe, corporation, or cooperative association organized by Indians, when authorized under such rules and regulations as the Secretary or his/her designee has prescribed or shall prescribe.
[49 FR 25434, June 21, 1984]
§ 140.9
Application for license.
(a) Application for license must be made in writing on Form 5-052, setting forth the full name and residence of the applicant; if a firm, the firm name and the name of each member thereof; the place where it is proposed to carry on the trade; the capital to be invested; the names of the clerks to be employed; and the business experience of the applicant. The application must be forwarded through the Superintendent to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, accompanied by two satisfactory testimonials on Form 2-077 as to the character of the applicant and his employees and their fitness to be in the Indian country, and by an affidavit of the Superintendent on Form 5-053 that neither he nor any person for him has any interest, direct or indirect, present or prospective, in the proposed business or the profits arising therefrom, and that no arrangement for any benefit to himself or to any other person on his behalf is contemplated in case the license is granted. Licensed traders will be held responsible for the conduct of their employees.
(b) Itinerant peddlers or purveyors of foodstuffs and other merchandise shall be considered as traders and shall obtain a license or permit from the Superintendent setting forth the class of trade or peddling to be carried on, furnishing such character or credit references, or both, as may be required by the Superintendent. The period of the license for such itinerant peddlers shall be determined by the Superintendent.
(c) When a license or permit to trade is issued under the regulations in this part 140, a fee of $5, payable when the license is issued, shall be levied against the licensee.
[30 FR 8267, June 29, 1965. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 140.11
License period.
Licenses to trade shall not be issued unless the proposed licensee has a right to the use of the land on which the business is to be conducted. The license period shall correspond to the period of the lease or permit held by the licensee on restricted Indian land, except that where the proposed licensee is the owner or beneficial owner or holds a use right to the land on which the business is to be conducted, the license period shall be fixed by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or his authorized representative, but in no case shall the license period exceed 25 years.
[30 FR 8268, June 29, 1965. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 140.12
License renewal.
Application for renewal of license must be made to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs on Form 5-054, through the superintendent, at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the existing license, and the superintendent must report as to the record the applicant has made as a trader and his fitness to continue as such under a new license.
§ 140.13
Power to close unlicensed stores.
If persons carry on trade within a reservation with the Indians without a license, or continue to trade after expiration of the license without applying for renewal, the superintendent will immediately report the facts in the case to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who may, if necessary, direct the superintendent to close the stores of such traders.
§ 140.14
Trade limited to specified premises.
No trade with Indians is permitted at any other place than that specified in the license. Licenses to not cover branch stores. A separate license and bond must be furnished for each such store. The business of a licensed trader must be managed by the bonded principal, who must habitually reside upon the reservation, and not by an unbonded subordinate.
§ 140.15
License applicable for trading only by original licensee.
No trader will be allowed to lease, sublet, rent, or sell any of the buildings which he occupies, for any purpose to any other person or concern, without the approval of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. A license to trade with Indians does not confer upon the trader any right or privileges in respect to the herding or raising of livestock upon the reservation. The use of reservation lands, whether tribal or allotted, for such purposes can be obtained by a trader only upon the terms and under the restrictions which apply to other persons. His license gives him no advantage over others in this respect.
§ 140.16
Trade in annuities or gratuities prohibited.
Traders are forbidden to buy, trade for, or have in their possession any annuity or other goods of any description which have been purchased or furnished by the Government for the use or welfare of the Indians. Livestock or their increase purchased by the Government and in possession or control of the Indians may not be purchased by any trader, not a member of the tribe to which the owners or possessors of the cattle belong, except with the written consent of the agent of said tribe.
§ 140.17
Tobacco sales to minors.
No trader shall sell tobacco, cigars, or cigarettes to any Indian under 18 years of age.
§ 140.18
Intoxicating liquors.
No trader shall use or permit to be used his premises for any unlawful conduct or purpose whatsoever. No trader shall use of permit to be used any part of his premises for the manufacture, sale, gift, transportation, drinking or storage of intoxicating liquors or beverages in violation of existing laws relating thereto. Violation of this section will subject the trader to criminal prosecution, revocation of license and such other action as may be necessary.
§ 140.19
Drugs.
Traders shall not keep for sale, or sell, give away, or use any opium, chloral, cocaine, peyote or mescal bean, hashish or Indian hemp or marihuana, or any compound containing either ingredient, and for violation hereof the trader's license shall be revoked.
§ 140.21
Gambling.
Gambling, by dice, cards, or in any way whatever, is strictly prohibited in any licensed trader's store or on the premises.
§ 140.22
Inspection of traders' prices.
It is the duty of the superintendent to see that the prices charged by licensed traders are fair and reasonable. To this end the traders shall on request submit to the superintendent or inspecting officials the original invoice, showing cost, together with a statement of transportation charges, retail price of articles sold by them, the amount of Indian accounts carried on their books, the total annual sales, the value of buildings, livestock owned on reservation, the number of employees, and any other business information such officials may desire. The quality of all articles kept on sale must be good and merchantable.
§ 140.23
Credit at trader's risk.
Credit given Indians will be at the trader's own risk, as no assistance will
be given by Government officials in the collection of debts against Indians. Traders shall not accept pawns or pledges of personal property by Indians to obtain credit or loans.
§ 140.24
Cash payments only to Indians.
Traders must not pay Indians in tokens, tickets, store orders, or anything else of that character. Payment must be made in money, or in credit if the Indian is indebted to the trader.
§ 140.25
Trade in antiquities prohibited.
Traders shall not deal in objects of antiquity removed from any historic or prehistoric ruin or monument on land owned or controlled by the United States.

# Cross Reference:
For regulations pertaining to archaeological resources, see part 262 of this chapter. For regulations of the Bureau of Land Management regarding antiquities, see 43 CFR part 3.
§ 140.26
Infectious plants.
Traders shall not introduce into, sell, or spread within Indian reservations any plant, plant product, seed, or any type of vegetation, which is infested, or infected or which might act as a carrier of any pests of infectious, transmissible, or contagious diseases, as determined by the laws and regulations of the State for plant quarantine and pest control. For the purpose of enforcement of this provision State officers may enter Indian reservations, with the consent of the superintendent, to inspect the premises of such traders and otherwise to execute such State laws and regulations.
Pt. 141

# PART 141—BUSINESS PRACTICES ON THE NAVAJO, HOPI AND ZUNI RESERVATIONS

# Subpart A—Interpretation and Construction Guides
Sec.
141.1
Purpose.
141.2
Scope.
141.3
Definitions.
141.4
Interpretation and construction.

# Subpart B—Licensing Requirements and Procedures
141.5
Reservation business license required.
141.6
Approval or denial of license application.
141.7
Bond requirement for a reservation business.
141.8
License period for reservation businesses.
141.9
Application for license renewal.
141.10
License fees for reservation businesses.
141.11
Tribal fees, taxes, and enforcement.
141.12
Peddler's permits.
141.13
Amusement company licenses.
141.14
Trade in livestock restricted.
141.15
Consent to jurisdiction of Hopi and Zuni tribal courts.

# Subpart C—General Business Practices
141.16
Price marking.
141.17
Health and sanitation requirements.
141.18
Availability of employee authorized to transact business.
141.19
Check cashing.
141.20
Payment for purchase of Indian goods or services.
141.21
Trade confined to premises.
141.22
Subleasing prohibited.
141.23
Posted statement of ownership.
141.24
Attendance at semi-annual meetings.
141.25
Withholding of mail prohibited.
141.26
Trade in antiquities prohibited.
141.27
Trade in imitation Indian crafts prohibited.
141.28
Gambling prohibited.
141.29
Political contributions restricted.
141.30
Retaliation prohibited.
141.31
Trade by Indian Affairs employees restricted.

# Subpart D—Pawnbroker Practices
141.32
Reservation pawnbroker license required.
141.33
Fees for pawnbroker license.
141.34
Pawnbroker records.
141.35
Pawnbroker disclosure requirements.
141.36
Maximum finance charges on pawn transactions.
141.37
Prepayment.
141.38
Pawn loans, period, notice and sale.
141.39
Sale and redemption of pawn.
141.40
Proceeds of sale.
141.41
Refinancing transaction.
141.42
Lost pawn receipts or tickets.
141.43
Outstanding obligations owed to pledgee.
141.44
Insurance on pawn.

# Subpart E—Consumer Credit Transactions Other Than Pawn
141.45
Consumer credit applications.
141.46
Credit disclosure statements.
141.47
Monthly billing statement.
141.48
Translation of disclosure statements.
141.49
Usury prohibited.

# Subpart F—Enforcement Powers, Procedures and Remedies
141.50
Penalty and forfeiture of merchandise.
141.51
Authority to close unlicensed reservation businesses.
141.52
Revocation of license and lease and recovery on bond.
141.53
Cease and desist orders.
141.54
Periodic review of performance.
141.55
Price monitoring and control.
141.56
Show cause procedures.
141.57
Procedures to cancel liability on bond.
141.58
Records, reports, and obligations of reservation business owners.
141.59
Customer complaint procedures.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
40 FR 39835, Aug. 29, 1975, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.

# Subpart A—Interpretation and Construction Guides
§ 141.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations of this part is to prescribe rules for the regulation of reservation businesses for the protection of Indian consumers on the Navajo, Hopi and Zuni Reservations as required by 25 U.S.C. 261, 262, 263, and 264.
§ 141.2
Scope.
The regulations of this part apply to all non-members of the Navajo, Hopi and Zuni Tribes, who engage in retail businesses on the above respective reservations. These regulations do not apply to businesses that are wholly owned and operated by either the Navajo, Hopi or Zuni Tribes, or by individual tribal members within their respective reservations.
[45 FR 64906, Oct. 1, 1980. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part—
(a)
Annual percentage rate
means the annual percentage rate of finance charge determined in accordance with 12 CFR 226.5, which defines annual percentage rates.
(b)
Consumer credit transaction
means a grant of credit or a loan that is made by a person regularly engaged in the business of making loans or granting credit primarily for a personal, family, household, or agricultural purpose.
(c)
Draft
means a writing that is a direction to pay that:
(1) Identifies the person to pay with reasonable certainty;
(2) Is signed by the drawer;
(3) Contains an unconditional order to pay a sum certain in money and no other promise, order, obligation or power given by the drawer;
(4) Is payable on demand or at a definite time; and
(5) Is payable to order.
(d)
Finance charge
means the cost of credit determined in accordance with 12 CFR 226.4, which defines “finance charge”.
(e)
Firm
means a corporation or a partnership.
(f)
Gross receipts
include the following:
(1) All cash received from the conduct and operation of the licensee's business at the premises described in the application for license.
(2) Receipts from both wholesale and retail transactions.
(3) Receipts resulting from transactions concluded off the reservation that originate from the conduct and operation of the licensee's business on the reservation.
(4) The market value of all property taken in trade on the date when received and either held by the licensee for purposes other than resale or credited on any account in payment for merchandise.
(5) Proceeds from the sale of any goods bought from Indians regardless of where the sale takes place.
(6) Finance charge received on loans, but not the return of principal.
(g)
Open end credit
means consumer credit transactions made on an account by a plan under which:
(1) The creditor may permit the customer to make purchases or obtain loans, from time to time, directly from the creditor or indirectly by use of a credit card, check, or other device, as the plan may provide;
(2) The customer has the privilege of paying the balance in full or in installments; and
(3) A finance charge may be computed by the creditor from time to time on an outstanding unpaid balance.
(h)
Pawnbroker
means a person whose business includes lending money secured by personal property deposited with the lender.
(i)
Peddler
means a person who offers goods for sale within the exterior boundaries of the Hopi, Navajo or Zuni Reservations, but does not do business from a fixed location or site on any of those reservations.
(j)
Person
includes a natural person, a corporation, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
(k)
Replacement value
means the present cost to the owner of replacing an item with one having the same quality and usefulness.
(l)
Reservation business
means a person that engages at a fixed location or site within the exterior boundaries of the Navajo, Hopi or Zuni Reservations in the sale or purchase of goods or services or in consumer credit transactions with Indians and is not a bank, saving bank, trust company, savings or building and loan association or credit union operating under the laws of the United States or the laws of New Mexico, Arizona or Utah, a business on the Hopi Reservation that is wholly owned and operated by members of the Hopi Tribe, or a business on the Zuni Reservation that is wholly owned and operated by members of the Zuni Tribe.
§ 141.4
Interpretation and construction.
(a)
Area Director
refers to the Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Administrator of the Joint Use Area of the Bureau of Indian Affairs who has jurisdiction over the land on which a person does business or intends to do business with Indians.
(b)
Commissioner
refers to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or a person to whom the Commissioner of Indian Affairs has delegated authority under this part or under 25 U.S.C. 261, 262, 263, or 264.
(c)
Superintendent
refers to the Superintendent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs who has jurisdiction over the land on which a person does business or intends to do business with Indians.
(d)
Tribe
refers to the tribe that has jurisdiction over the land on which a person does business or intends to do business with Indians.

# Subpart B—Licensing Requirements and Procedures
§ 141.5
Reservation business license required.
(a) No person may own or lease a reservation business without a license issued under the provisions of this subpart.
(b) The applicant shall apply in writing on a form provided by the Commissioner setting forth the following:
(1) The full name and residence of the applicant.
(2) Three (3) responsible references.
(3) The firm name and the name of each member of the board of directors if the applicant is a firm.
(4) Satisfactory evidence as to the character, experience and business ability of the applicant and the employees of the applicant.
(5) Satisfactory evidence of the general fitness of the applicant and employees of the applicant to reside on the Indian reservation.
(c) Upon the request of the Commissioner, the applicant shall furnish the following:
(1) The capital invested or to be invested and, of this, the amount of capital owned and the amount borrowed or to be borrowed.
(2) The name of the lender of any borrowed capital, the date due, the rate of interest to be paid, and the names of any endorsers and security.
(3) A copy of any contract or trade agreement whether oral or written with creditors or financing individuals or institutions, including any stipulations whereby financing fees are to be paid.
(d) Information that if released might adversely affect the competitive position of the applicant shall remain confidential.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.6
Approval or denial of license application.
(a) The Commissioner shall approve or deny each license application and notify the applicant no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of a completed application.
(b) No application is complete until any clearance or tribal council approval required by tribal or Federal regulations has been obtained.
(c) The Commissioner may not deny a license to an applicant for the purpose of limiting competition.
(d) If the application is approved the license shall be issued on a form provided by the Commissioner.
(e) If the Commissioner denies the license application the applicant may appeal under the provisions of part 2 of this title no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which notice of denial of the application was sent.
§ 141.7
Bond requirement for a reservation business.
(a) An applicant for a license or renewal of a license to operate a reservation business shall at the time the application is submitted furnish a bond on a form provided by the Commissioner in the name of the applicant in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or such larger sum as the Commissioner may designate, with two (2) on more sureties approved by the Commissioner or with a guaranty company qualified under the Act of August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279; 6 U.S.C. 6-13). The bond shall be for the same period covered by the license. No licensee may trade without a bond. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no surety may be released from liability until the license expires.
(b) The bond shall be in favor of the United States for the benefit of the United States and any customer of the licensee who recovers a judgment for damages resulting from violation of any law or regulation affecting or relating to reservation businesses. Any customer who recovers such a judgment may bring suit on the bond in his or her own name. The bond shall be conditioned on payment by the licensee of all judgments for damages resulting from violations of the regulations of this part.
(c) Any surety for a reservation business on the Hopi or Zuni Reservation shall agree in writing to submit itself voluntarily to the jurisdiction of the tribal court for the purpose of adjudicating any claim arising under the bond.
(d) Any surety on the bond of a licensed reservation business may be relieved from liabilities by complying with the provisions of § 141.57 of this title.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 22937, June 8, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.8
License period for reservation businesses.
A license to operate a reservation business may not be issued unless the applicant has a right to use the land on which the business is to be conducted. The license period shall correspond to the period of the lease held by the licensee. The license period in no event may exceed twenty-five (25) years.
§ 141.9
Application for license renewal.
(a) An applicant for renewal of the license to trade shall file an application on a form provided by the Commissioner with the Area Director not less than three (3) months prior to the expiration of the existing license. The Area Director shall report in writing to the Commissioner on the record the applicant has made as a reservation business owner and the applicant's present fitness to reside on the Indian reservation.
(b) The Commissioner may issue a temporary permit for three (3) months pending consideration of application for license renewal.
(c) Prior to expiration of the existing license or, if issued, the temporary permit, the Commissioner shall approve or deny the application for license renewal and notify the applicant.
(d) No license may be renewed until any clearance or tribal council approval required by tribal or other federal regulations has been obtained.
(e) If the Commissioner denies the application for renewal, the applicant may appeal under the provisions of part 2 of this title.
§ 141.10
License fees for reservation businesses.
(a) Prior to the issuance of an initial license, each licensee who is not a member of the Navajo tribe shall pay the following amount:
(1) If the license is issued before July 1, the licensee shall pay fifty dollars ($50).
(2) If the license is issued on or after July 1, the licensee shall pay twenty-five dollars ($25).
(b) Each licensed business owner who is not a member of the Navajo tribe shall pay on or before January 10 of each year an annual license fee determined as follows based on the licensee's most recent annual report:
(1) If the licensee's gross receipts are less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for the year or the licensee has not yet been required to file its first annual report, the license fee is fifty dollars ($50).
(2) If the licensee's gross receipts for the year are at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) but not more than four hundred and ninety-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars ($499,999) the fee is one hundred dollars ($100).
(3) If the licensee's gross receipts for the year are at least five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) but not more than seven hundred and forty-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars ($749,999), the fee is two hundred dollars ($200).
(4) If the licensee's gross receipts for the year are seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) or more, the fee is three hundred dollars ($300).
(c) The Navajo Area Director shall determine the annual license fee payable by licensees who are enrolled members of the Navajo Tribe. The license fee for an enrolled member of the Navajo Tribe may not be less than twenty percent (20%) nor greater than one hundred percent (100 percent) of the amount the licensee would be required to pay if the licensee were not a tribal member.
(d) All fees are payable to the Area Director and shall be deposited to the credit of the account “Special Deposits.”
[40 FR 39835, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 59 FR 54502, Oct. 31, 1994]
§ 141.11
Tribal fees, taxes, and enforcement.
(a) The regulations in this part do not preclude the Hopi, Navajo, or Zuni tribal councils from assessing and collecting such fees or taxes as they may deem appropriate from reservation businesses.
(b) Nothing in the regulations of this part may be construed to preclude tribal enforcement of these regulations or consistent tribal ordinances.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.12
Peddler's permits.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no peddler may offer goods for sale within the exterior boundaries of the Hopi, Navajo, or Zuni reservations without a peddler's permit. The permit shall state on its face the class of goods that may be offered for sale. No peddler may offer for sale any class of goods other than those listed on the face of the permit.
(b) No peddler who is an enrolled member of a federally recognized Indian tribe is required to obtain a peddler's permit for offering to sell the following items:
(1) Coal and wood for non-commercial use,
(2) Homegrown fresh products,
(3) Meat products raised locally by the peddler, or
(4) Arts and crafts made by the peddler or the peddler's family.
(c) The applicant shall apply for a permit in writing on a form provided by the Commissioner.
(d) Peddlers shall pay such fee and post such surety bond on a form provided by the Commissioner as the Commissioner requires. The surety bond required may not be less than five hundred dollars ($500) nor more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
(e) Any surety on the bond of a peddler may be relieved of liability by complying with the provisions of § 141.57.
(25 U.S.C. 261
et seq.
)
[43 FR 27826, June 27, 1978. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.13
Amusement company licenses.
(a) No person may operate a portable dance pavilion, mechanical amusement device such as a ferris wheel or carousel, or commercial games of skill within the exterior boundaries of the Navajo, Hopi, or Zuni Reservations without a license from the Commissioner.
(b) The licensee shall pay such fee as the Commissioner requires. The fee shall be not less than five dollars ($5) nor more than twenty-five dollars ($25) per unit.
(c) The licensee shall post a surety bond on a form provided by the Commissioner in an amount not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000) and a personal injury and property damage liability bond of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) nor more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) as may be required by the Commissioner.
(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to amusement companies where the contract between the tribe and the amusement company provides for the payment of a fee to the tribe and for the protection of the public against personal injury and property damage by bond in the amounts specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) Any surety on a bond under this section may be relieved of liability by complying with the provisions of § 141.57.
§ 141.14
Trade in livestock restricted.
(a) No person other than an enrolled member of the tribe or any association, partnership, corporation or business entity wholly owned by enrolled members of the tribe may purchase livestock from tribal members without a special permit issued by the Commissioner.
(b) The Commissioner shall issue a permit to each applicant who establishes to the Commissioner's satisfaction that the applicant is a fit person to engage in the purchase of livestock and who posts a bond on a form provided by the Commissioner in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000). This paragraph does not require a person who has posted a bond of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or more under other provisions of this part to post an additional bond to obtain a permit under this section.
(c) Any surety on a bond under this section may be relieved of liability by complying with the provisions of § 141.57.
(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to purchases of livestock made at an organized public auction.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 22937, June 8, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.15
Consent to jurisdiction of Hopi and Zuni tribal courts.
As a condition to doing business on the Hopi or the Zuni Reservation each applicant for license under this part shall, in accordance with the constitutions of those tribes, voluntarily submit the applicant and the applicant's employees or agents to the jurisdiction of the tribal court for the purpose of the adjudication of any dispute, claim or obligation arising under tribal ordinance relating to commerce carried out by the licensee.

# Subpart C—General Business Practices
§ 141.16
Price marking.
The price of each article offered for sale shall be marked on the article, its containers or in any other manner that is plain and visible to the customer and that affords the customer a reasonable opportunity to learn the price of the article prior to purchase.
§ 141.17
Health and sanitation requirements.
(a) Each licensee shall keep both the premises and the place of business in a clean and sanitary condition at all times and shall avoid exposure of foodstuffs to contamination. No licensee may offer for sale any goods that are banned for health or sanitation reasons from retail sale by any Federal agency or by the tribe or, where not in conflict with the tribal regulations, by the State or by any State agency. No licensee may knowingly offer for sale any food that is contaminated.
(b) All weights and measure shall conform to standards set by the National Bureau of Standards and to standards, if any, set by the tribe and,
if not in conflict with tribal regulations, to the standards set by the State.
(c) If training in foodhandling is available from the Indian Health Service, each person working in a reservation business shall complete the foodhandler training offered by the Indian Health Service before handling any food sold by a reservation business.
(d) Any person whom the Service Unit Director of the Indian Health Service determines is infected with or is a carrier of any communicable disease in a stage likely to be communicable to persons exposed as a result of the infected employee's normal duties as a foodhandler may not be employed by a reservation business.
(e) Each business shall comply with all Federal health regulations and with all tribal health regulations that are consistent with Federal regulations. Each business shall comply with State health regulations that are consistent with tribal and Federal health regulations.
(f) Except as otherwise provided herein, nothing in this section may be construed as a grant of enforcement powers to any agency of a State or its subdivisions.
(g) It is the duty of the health officers of the Indian Health Service to make periodic inspections, recommend improvements, and report thereon to the Commissioner.
§ 141.18
Availability of employee authorized to transact business.
Each licensee shall provide during normal business hours an employee authorized in writing to engage in all business transactions that the licensee normally offers to customers.
§ 141.19
Check cashing.
(a) A reservation business may give a fully negotiable check in addition to U.S. currency when cashing a draft, check or money order. A reservation business may not give scrip, credit or other substitute for U.S. currency when cashing a draft, check or money order.
(b) A reservation business owner or employee may advise a customer cashing checks, money orders or drafts of the amount due on the customer's credit accounts, pawn accounts or any other obligation the customer owes to the business, but in no event may the owner or employee withhold the proceeds of the check, money order or draft from the customer on the basis of existing credit obligations.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.20
Payment for purchase of Indian goods or services.
(a) A reservation business shall pay for the purchase of Indian goods or services with cash or a fully negotiable check. A reservation business may not pay for Indian goods or services with trade slips or future credit. In any transaction involving the purchase of Indian goods on the Navajo Reservation, the reservation business shall furnish a bill of sale indicating the name of the seller, a description of the goods, the amount paid for the goods, the date of sale, and the signature of both parties and shall retain a copy of the bill of sales in its business records.
(b) A reservation business owner or employee may advise a customer selling Indian goods or services of the amount due on the customer's credit accounts, pawn accounts or any other obligation the customer owes to the business, but in no event may the owner or employee withhold the proceeds of the sale from the customer on the basis of existing credit obligations.
§ 141.21
Trade confined to premises.
The licensee shall confine all trade on the reservation to the premises specified in the license, except, where permitted under § 141.14, the buying and selling of livestock and livestock products.
§ 141.22
Subleasing prohibited.
No licensee may lease, sublet, rent, or sell any building that the licensee occupies for any purpose to any person without the approval of the Commissioner and the consent of the tribe.
§ 141.23
Posted statement of ownership.
The licensee of a reservation business shall display in a prominent place a notice that is legible to customers stating the form of the business entity, the names and addresses of all other reservation businesses owned in whole or in part by the business entity, and if the licensee is not a corporation, the names and addresses of the owner or owners of the business. If the licensee is a corporation the notice shall list the names and addresses of the members of the Board of Directors.
§ 141.24
Attendance at semi-annual meetings.
Upon the request of a tribal official designated by the governing body, each licensee shall attend a semi-annual public meeting of a tribal governing body to respond to customer inquiries.
§ 141.25
Withholding of mail prohibited.
No owner or employee of a reservation business may open, withhold, or otherwise delay the delivery of mail.
§ 141.26
Trade in antiquities prohibited.
No licensee may knowingly buy, sell, rent or lease any artifact created before 1930 that was removed from an historic ruin or monument.
§ 141.27
Trade in imitation Indian crafts prohibited.
No person may introduce or possess for disposition or sale within the exterior boundaries of the Hopi, Navajo or Zuni Reservations any object that is represented to be an Indian handicraft unless the object was produced by an Indian or Indians with the help of only such devices as allow the manual skill of the maker to condition the shape and design of each individual's product.
§ 141.28
Gambling prohibited.
No licensee may permit any person to gamble by dice, cards, or in any way whatever, including the use of any mechanical device, on the premises of any licensed business.
§ 141.29
Political contributions restricted.
No reservation business owner who is ineligible to vote in a Navajo tribal election may grant or donate any money or goods to any candidate for election to Navajo tribal office.
§ 141.30
Retaliation prohibited.
No licensee may refuse service to any customer for the purpose of retaliating against that customer for enforcing or attempting to enforce the regulations of this part.
§ 141.31
Trade by Indian Affairs employees restricted.
(a) Except as authorized in this section, no person employed by the U.S. Government in Indian Affairs may have any interest in any trade with an Indian or an Indian organization. Employees of the U.S. Government may trade with an Indian or Indian organization for any purpose other than to engage in a profit-making activity under the following conditions:
(1) Where the amount involved is $500 or less a U.S. Government employee may purchase goods or services from an Indian or Indian organization.
(2) Where the amount involved is greater than $500 a U.S. Government employee may, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, purchase goods or services from any Indian or Indian organization.
(b) Lease or sale of home sites or allotments on trust or restricted Indian land to or from Indian employees of the U.S. Government shall be made on sealed bids, unless the Commissioner waives this requirement on the basis of a report showing:
(1) The need for the transaction,
(2) The benefits accruing to both parties, and
(3) That the consideration for the proposed transaction is not less than the appraised value of the land or leasehold interest unless the Indian employee qualifies and is intending a transaction in accordance with § 152.5 (b) and (c) of this chapter or § 162.5(b)(1), (2) and (3) of this chapter.
An affidavit, as follows, shall accompany each proposed land transaction:
I,____________________________(Name)
____________________________(Title)
swear (or affirm) that I have not exercised any undue influence nor used any special knowledge received by reason of my office in obtaining the (grantor's, purchaser's, vendor's) consent to the instant transaction.
(c) This section does not prohibit any reservation business from contracting with the Federal Government to provide postal services to Indian communities in which Government postal service is unavailable.
(d) Nothing in this section prohibits an Indian employee from receiving benefits by reason of membership in a tribe or corporation or cooperative association organized by and operated for Indians.
(e) U.S. Government employees who violate this section are liable to a penalty of five thousand dollars ($5,000) and shall be removed from office, see 25 U.S.C. 68.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]

# Subpart D—Pawnbroker Practices
§ 141.32
Reservation pawnbroker license required.
(a) No person may accept pawns or pledges of personal property as security for monies or accounts due by an Indian within the exterior boundaries of the Navajo, Hopi or Zuni Reservations unless such person is an agent of a bank, saving bank, trust company, savings or building and loan association, or credit union operating under the laws of the United States or the laws of New Mexico, Arizona, or Utah or unless such person—
(1) Holds a valid license to operate a reservation business,
(2) Holds a valid reservation pawnbroker license, and
(3) Posts a bond on a form provided by the commissioner in the name of the licensee in the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or such larger sum as may be designated by the Commissioner with two (2) or more sureties approved by the Commissioner or with a guaranty company qualified under the Act of August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279; 6 U.S.C. 6-13).
(b) An applicant for a reservation pawnbroker license shall apply in writing on a form provided by the Commissioner.
(c) The bond required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be in favor of the United States for the benefits of the customers of the licensee and shall specifically indemnify all customers who have recovered judgment against the licensee for destroyed, lost, misplaced or misappropriated pawn or other property. Any customer recovering such a judgment may bring suit on the bond in his or her own name. The bond shall be for the same period as the license.
(d) Any surety on a bond under this section may be relieved of liability by complying with the provisions of § 141.57.
(e) No person may accept pawns or pledges of personal property as security for monies or accounts due by an Indian after the effective date of a tribal ordinance banning the acceptance of pawn on the reservation.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976; 41 FR 22937, June 8, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.33
Fees for pawnbroker license.
(a) Prior to the issuance of an initial pawnbroker license, each licensee who is not a member of the Navajo Tribe shall pay the following amount:
(1) If the license is issued before July 1, the licensee shall pay two hundred dollars ($200).
(2) If the license is issued on or after July 1, the licensee shall pay one hundred dollars ($100).
(b) Each licensed pawnbroker who is not a member of the Navajo Tribe shall pay on or before January 10 of each year an annual license fee of two hundred dollars ($200).
(c) The Area Director shall determine the annual license fee payable by licensees who are enrolled members of the Navajo Tribe. The license fee for a member of the Navajo Tribe may not be less than twenty percent (20 percent) nor greater than one hundred percent (100 percent) of the amount the licensee would be required to pay if the licensee were not tribal member.
(d) All fees are payable to the Area Director and shall be deposited to the
credit of the account “Special Deposits.”
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982; 59 FR 54502, Oct. 31, 1994]
§ 141.34
Pawnbroker records.
Each pawnbroker shall keep a written record of the following information:
(a) Transaction number.
(b) Name of pledgor.
(c) Address of pledgor.
(d) Census number or social security number of pledgor.
(e) Date of transaction.
(f) Replacement value of pawn.
(g) Description of pawned item.
(h) Amount loaned in cash.
(i) Amount loaned as credit.
(j) Finance charge.
(k) Amount financed.
(l) Date and amount of payments made by pledgor.
(m) Date notice of default sent to pledgor.
(n) Date pawned item sold.
(o) Name and address of purchaser.
(p) Amount received upon sale.
(q) Amount of any surplus returned to the pledgor.
(r) Such other information as the Commissioner may require.
§ 141.35
Pawnbroker disclosure requirements.
In all transactions in which pawn is taken the lender shall give the borrower a written ticket or receipt disclosing the following information to the extent applicable:
(a) Clear identification of the property pledged.
(b) The date of the transaction.
(c) Amount of the loan.
(d) Name and social security or census number of the pledgor.
(e) Replacement value of the pawn as agreed upon by the pledgor and pledgee.
(f) Date on which loan is due.
(g) The amount, expressed as a dollar amount, of any finance charges.
(h) The finance charges expressed as an annual percentage rate and computed in accordance with the provisions of 12 CFR 226.5(b).
(i) The amount, or method of computing the amount, of any charges to be assessed after the date the loan is due.
(j) A statement of the conditions of default and the pledgor's rights upon default, as defined by this part.
(k) Identification of the method of computing any unearned portion of the finance charges in the event of prepayment of the obligation.
§ 141.36
Maximum finance charges on pawn transactions.
No pawnbroker may impose an annual finance charge greater than twenty-four percent (24 percent) of the unpaid balance for the period of the loan nor assess late charges or delinquency charges on any loan.
§ 141.37
Prepayment.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the pledgor may prepay in full or in any part the unpaid balance of a loan at any time without penalty.
(b) When a loan is prepaid the lender may collect the earned portion of the finance charge or may charge an administrative fee not to exceed ten percent (10 percent) of the unearned finance charge or two dollars ($2) whichever is greater.
§ 141.38
Pawn loans, period, notice and sale.
(a) The proceeds of all loans secured by pawn and for which a finance charge is imposed shall be paid only in cash or with a fully negotiable check.
(b) The period of all such loans shall be no less than twelve (12) months, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c).
(c) Thirty (30) days prior to the end of the loan period the pledgee may make a declaration of intention to proceed with sale of the pawned item by sending notice of intent to the pledgor.
(d) The notice required in paragraph (c) of this section shall be sent to the pledgor and proof of delivery obtained and shall contain a description of the item pawned, a statement of the principal and finance charge owed, a statement of the intention to sell, the date of the sale, and the procedure for redemption.
(e) Nothing in this section requires the business owner to proceed with notice and sale if the business owner desires to hold the pawn for a period longer than the loan period stated in the original agreement.
(f) Unless notice is given under paragraph (c) of this section, or the loan is refinanced under the provisions of § 141.41, no finance charge may be imposed for the time the loan remains unpaid after the end of the loan period stated on the pawn ticket.
§ 141.39
Sale and redemption of pawn.
(a) If the retention period has expired and notice as required under § 141.38 of this part has been sent and received, the pledgee may proceed with the sale of the pawn.
(b) The pawn shall be sold no sooner than thirty (30) days but no later than twelve (12) months after notice of intent to sell has been given. The sale shall be a public sale, with notice of the time, place, and manner to be given in a tribal newspaper of general circulation not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the sale, or in the absence of such a newspaper, in a commercially reasonable manner. The sale itself shall also be conducted in a commercially reasonable manner.
(c) A pledgor may redeem pawn which has been put up for sale at any time before the day it is to be sold by tendering to the pledgee the face amount of the loan, plus the finance charge assessed on the original loan. The pledgee may also collect an additional charge covering the period between the date due and the date of redemption, provided that the rate of charge does not exceed the finance charge on the original loan.
(d) The pledgee may buy at the pledgee's own sale if the collateral is of a type customarily sold in a recognized market or which is the subject of widely distributed standard price quotations.
(e) Pawn held for more than twelve (12) months after notice of intent to sell has been given may not be sold, but the pledgor may redeem the pawn at any time by tendering to the pledgee the face amount of the loan, plus the finance charge that accrued before the end of the sale period provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.40
Proceeds of sale.
(a) The following items shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of pawned items in the following order of priority:
(1) The expense of advertising and conducting the sale, not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the amount loaned.
(2) The principal amount of the loan, plus any accrued finance charges.
(3) The finance charge calculated at the annual percentage rate of the original loan on the unpaid balance of the loan for the period from the date of default to the date of sale.
(b) Within ten (10) days after the sale of the pledge under this section, the pledgee shall send a notice to the pledgor informing the pledgor of the date of the sale, the proceeds of the sale, the allowable costs of the sale, any additional finance charges, and the amount of any surplus realized. The pledgee shall obtain proof that the notice was delivered.
(c) Any proceeds of the sale remaining after the deductions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section are deemed to be “surplus” and shall be paid over to the pledgor or the pledgor's estate in U.S. currency.
(d) The sale of pledged goods and the application of the proceeds in accordance with this section extinguishes all rights of action of the pledgee for any unpaid principal or finance charge on the original loan.
§ 141.41
Refinancing transaction.
(a) Any pawn agreement may be refinanced, either with or without an increase in the principal amount of the loan, prior to or following the date of expiration of the original period of the loan upon agreement between the parties.
(b) Such refinancing constitutes a new transaction for purposes of all disclosure and record keeping requirements of this part and requires the issuance of a new ticket or receipt.
(c) The rate of the additional finance charge imposed as part of the refinancing agreement may not exceed the maximum rate imposed by § 141.36.
(d) The total finance charges in a refinancing agreement may not exceed the sum of the following amounts:
(1) The finance charge that the pledgor would have been required to pay upon prepayment on the date of refinancing under § 141.37 of this part, except that, for the purpose of computing this amount, no minimum finance charge or administrative fee may be included, and
(2) Such additional finance charge as is permissible on the balance of the loan over the remaining period of the loan as extended.
(e) The default and sale procedures of this part apply to a refinanced pawn transaction in the same manner as they apply to an original pawn transaction.
§ 141.42
Lost pawn receipts or tickets.
(a) Redemption may not be denied on the sole ground that the pledgor is unable to produce a receipt or pawn ticket, provided the pledgor gives a reasonable description of the pawned item or makes an actual identification of the item. The pledgee may require the pledgor to sign a receipt for the redeemed pawn. No person other than the pledgor may redeem pawn without a ticket.
(b) No additional charges may be imposed for the loss of a pawn receipt or ticket.
§ 141.43
Outstanding obligations owed to pledgee.
If the pledgor tenders payment to be applied toward redemption of a pawned item, it shall be so applied by the pledgee, irrespective of other outstanding obligations owed by the pledgor to the pledgee. The pledgee may not deny the pledgor the right to redeem the pawn.
§ 141.44
Insurance on pawn.
(a) Any licensee under this part who lends money or extends credit with personal property as security and holds such property as a pledge shall maintain invault all risk insurance coverage running in favor of the pledgor for such property in amounts based upon a report issued monthly to the insurer. Such monthly report shall be an amount not less than the total agreed replacement value of all pawned items then held by the licensee.
(b) A copy of the insurance policy shall be available for inspection at the licensee's place of business and a copy shall be filed with the Commissioner.

# Subpart E—Consumer Credit Transactions Other Than Pawn
§ 141.45
Consumer credit applications.
Any reservation business offering credit which is not secured by pawn shall provide an application for credit to any customer requesting credit. Within thirty (30) days of the date of application, the lender shall act upon the application and notify the customer in writing of the decision with the reason therefor. A business owner who reduces the amount of credit available to a customer or terminates a credit account shall provide written notice to the customer stating the reason for the reduction or termination of such credit.
§ 141.46
Credit disclosure statements.
Upon approval of a credit application the lender shall give the applicant the following information where applicable in a written disclosure statement:
(a) The maximum credit limit of the account.
(b) The conditions under which a finance charge may be imposed.
(c) The period in which payment may be made without incurring a finance charge.
(d) The method used in determining the balance on which the finance charge is calculated.
(e) The method used to calculate the finance charge.
(f) The periodic rates used and the range of balances to which each rate applies.
(g) The conditions under which additional charges may be made and the method for calculating those charges.
(h) A description of any lien that may be acquired on a customer's property.
(i) The minimum payment that must be made on each billing.
§ 141.47
Monthly billing statement.
On all credit accounts on which a finance charge may be imposed and for all other credit accounts when requested by the customer, a licensee shall issue a monthly billing statement to the customer stating the following information where applicable:
(a) The unpaid balance at the start of the billing period.
(b) The amount and date of each extension of credit and identification of each item costing more than ten dollars ($10).
(c) Payments made by a customer and other credits, including returns, rebates, and adjustments.
(d) The finance charge shown in dollars and cents.
(e) The rates used in calculating the finance charge plus the range of balances to which the finance charge was calculated.
(f) The closing date of the billing cycle.
(g) The unpaid balance at that time.
§ 141.48
Translation of disclosure statements.
Disclosure required by §§ 141.46 and 141.47 shall be made in writing regardless of the customer's ability to speak, read, or write the English language. Disclosure to non-English speaking persons shall be translated orally into the appropriate language.
§ 141.49
Usury prohibited.
No reservation business may take or receive money, goods, or other things of value for a loan or forbearance on a debt that exceeds in value the principal plus twenty-four percent (24 percent) per annum finance charge. Any reservation business contracting for, reserving, or receiving directly or indirectly, any greater amount shall forfeit the finance charge.

# Subpart F—Enforcement Powers, Procedures and Remedies
§ 141.50
Penalty and forfeiture of merchandise.
Any person other than an enrolled member of the tribe who either resides as a reservation business owner within the exterior boundaries of the Navajo, Hopi, or Zuni Reservations or introduces or attempts to introduce goods or to trade therein without a license shall forfeit all merchandise offered for sale to the Indians or found in the person's possession and is liable to a penalty of $1,617. This section may be enforced by commencing an action in the appropriate United States District Court under the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1345.
[40 FR 39835, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7652, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7347, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13021, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 141.51
Authority to close unlicensed reservation businesses.
The Commissioner shall close any reservation business subject to the provisions of this part that does not hold a valid license or temporary permit.
§ 141.52
Revocation of license and lease and recovery on bond.
The reservation business owner is subject to revocation of license and lease and recovery on the bond in whole or in part in the event of any violation of the regulations of this part after a show cause proceeding according to the provisions of § 141.56.
[41 FR 22937, June 8, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.53
Cease and desist orders.
(a) If the Commissioner believes that violation of the regulations in this part is occurring, the Commissioner may order the person believed to be in violation to show cause according to the provisions of § 141.56 why a cease and desist order should not be issued.
(b) If the person accused of the violations fails to show cause at the hearing why such an order should not issue, the Commissioner shall issue the order.
(c) A person subject to a cease and desist order issued under this section who violates the order is liable to revocation of license after a show cause proceeding according to the provisions of § 141.56 of this part.
§ 141.54
Periodic review of performance.
(a) The Commissioner shall review licenses at ten (10) year intervals to determine whether or not the business is operating in accordance with these regulations and all other applicable laws and regulations and whether the business is adequately serving the economic needs of the community.
(b) If, as a result of the review provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner finds that the licensee has repeatedly violated these regulations, the Commissioner may order the licensee to show cause according to the provisions of § 141.56 why the licensee's license should not be revoked.
(c) If the licensee fails to show cause why the license should not be revoked, the Commissioner shall revoke the license.
§ 141.55
Price monitoring and control.
(a) A reservation business may not charge its customers unfair or unreasonable prices. To insure compliance with this section, the Commissioner shall perform audits as provided in § 141.58. In performing those audits the Commissioner may inspect all original books, records, and other evidences of the cost of doing business. In addition, at least once a year the Commissioner shall cause to be made a survey of the prices of flour, sugar, fresh eggs, lard, coffee, ground beef, bread, cheese, fresh milk, canned fruit, and such other goods as the Commissioner deems appropriate in all stores licensed under these regulations and in a representative number of similar stores located in communities immediately adjoining the reservations. The results of the survey shall be posted publicly, sent to each licensed business, and made available to the appropriate agency of the tribal government. Copies of the survey shall be available at the office of the Area Director.
(b) If the Commissioner finds that a reservation business is charging higher prices, especially for basic consumer commodities, than those charged on the average based on the studies conducted under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner may order the business owner to show cause under the provisions of § 141.56 why an order should not be issued to reduce prices. If the Commissioner determines that the prices charged by the business are not economically justified, based on all of the information, then the Commissioner may order the business to reduce its price on all items determined to be priced too high to a reasonable price as determined by the Commissioner, but in no event to a lower price than the cost of the item increased by a reasonable mark-up.
§ 141.56
Show cause procedures.
(a) When the Commissioner believes there has been a violation of this part the Commissioner shall serve the licensee with written notice setting forth in detail the nature of the alleged violation and stating what remedial action the Commissioner proposes to take.
(b) The licensee shall have ten (10) days from the date of receipt of notice in which to show cause why the contemplated remedial action should not be ordered.
(c) If within the ten (10) day period the Commissioner determines that the violation may be corrected and the licensee agrees to take the necessary corrective measure, the licensee shall be given the opportunity to take the necessary corrective measures.
(d) If the licensee fails within a reasonable time to correct the violation or to show cause why the contemplated remedial action should not be ordered, the Commissioner shall order the appropriate remedial action.
(e) If the Commissioner orders remedial action the licensee may appeal under the provisions of part 2 of this title not later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the remedial action is ordered.
§ 141.57
Procedures to cancel liability on bond.
(a) Any surety who wishes to be relieved from liability arising on a bond issued under this part shall file with the Commissioner a statement in writing setting forth the desire of the surety to be relieved of liability and the reasons therefor.
(b) The surety shall mail a copy of the statement by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the licensee named in the bond.
(c) Twenty (20) days after the statement required in paragraph (b) of this section is mailed to the licensee and the statement required in paragraph (a) of this section is filed with the Commissioner, the surety from all liability thereafter arising on the bond.
(d) If the licensee does not have other bond sufficient to meet the requirements of this part or has not executed and filed a new or substitute bond within twenty (20) days after the service of the statement, the Commissioner shall declare the license and lease void.
(e) No surety is released from liability under the bond for claims which arose prior to the issuance of the Commissioner's order releasing the surety.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976; 41 FR 22937, June 8, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.58
Records, reports, and obligations of reservation business owners.
(a) The Commissioner may, in consultation with interested persons and agencies, promulgate a model bookkeeping system for use in reservation businesses. Until such model bookkeeping system is promulgated, each business owner shall keep records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(b) Each reservation business owner shall file with the Area Director an annual report on or before April 15 in a form approved by the Commissioner. Reports shall be subject to a yearly audit. The reports shall contain the names and respective interests of all persons participating in the business.
(c) The business owner or an employee shall record all sales and purchases whether for cash or credit. If the business is on the Navajo Reservation the owner or an employee shall supply the customer with a copy of the sale transaction containing a description of the article purchased or sold, the date of the transaction, and the price. A cash register receipt complies with this paragraph for grocery or dry goods purchases for cash.
(d) The licensee shall keep a duplicate copy of any writing required by paragraph (c) of this section for a period of not less than three (3) years and shall provide the customer or the customer's representative one copy of those writings upon request.
[40 FR 39837, Aug. 29, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 3288, Jan. 22, 1976; 41 FR 13937, Apr. 1, 1976. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 141.59
Customer complaint procedures.
(a) Any customer of a licensee may file a complaint with the Commissioner alleging that the licensee has committed a violation of this part.
(b) Upon receipt of a customer complaint the Commissioner shall initiate show cause proceedings under the provisions of § 141.56 of this part.
(c) If the Commissioner fails to order remedial action within forty (40) days from the date the complaint is filed, the complainant may appeal under the provisions of part 2 of this title not later than seventy (70) days after the date the complaint is filed.
(d) If the Commissioner orders remedial action, the complainant may appeal under the provisions of part 2 of this title not later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the remedial action is ordered.
Pt. 142

# PART 142—ALASKA RESUPPLY OPERATION
Sec.
142.1
Definitions.
142.2
What is the purpose of the Alaska Resupply Operation?
142.3
Who is responsible for the Alaska Resupply Operation?
142.4
For whom is the Alaska Resupply Operation operated?
142.5
Who determines the rates and conditions of service of the Alaska Resupply Operation?
142.6
How are the rates and conditions for the Alaska Resupply Operation established?
142.7
How are transportation and scheduling determined?
142.8
Is economy of operation a requirement for the Alaska Resupply Operation?
142.9
How are orders accepted?
142.10
How is freight to be prepared?
142.11
How is payment made?
142.12
What is the liability of the United States for loss or damage?
142.13
Information collection.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; R.S. 463; 25 U.S.C. 2; R.S. 465; 25 U.S.C. 9; 42 Stat. 208; 25 U.S.C. 13; 38 Stat. 586.

# Source:
62 FR 18516, Apr. 16, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 142.1
Definitions.
Area Director
means the Area Director, Juneau Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Bureau
means Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Department
means Department of the Interior.
Manager
means Manager of the Seattle Support Center.
Must
is used in place of shall and indicates a mandatory or imperative act or requirement.
Indian
means any individual who is a member of an Indian tribe.
Indian tribe
means an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to Public Law 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791.
Alaska Native
means a member of an Alaska Native village or a Native shareholder in a corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
§ 142.2
What is the purpose of the Alaska Resupply Operation?
The Alaska Resupply Operation provides consolidated purchasing, freight handling and distribution, and necessary transportation services from Seattle, Washington to and from other points in Alaska or en route in support of the Bureau's mission and responsibilities.
§ 142.3
Who is responsible for the Alaska Resupply Operation?
The Seattle Support Center, under the direction of the Juneau Area Office, is responsible for the operation of the Alaska Resupply Operation, including the management of all facilities and equipment, personnel, and procurement of goods and services.
(a) The Seattle Support Center is responsible for publishing the rates and conditions that must be published in a tariff.
(b) All accounts receivable and accounts payable are handled by the Seattle Support Center.
(c) The Manager must make itineraries for each voyage in conjunction with contracted carriers. Preference is to be given to the work of the Bureau.
(d) The Area Director is authorized to direct the Seattle Support Center to perform special services that may arise and to act in any emergency.
§ 142.4
For whom is the Alaska Resupply Operation operated?
The Manager is authorized to purchase and resell food, fuel, clothing, supplies and materials, and to order, receive, stage, package, store and transport these goods and materials for:
(a) Alaska Native Tribes, Alaska Natives, Indian or Native owned businesses, profit or nonprofit Alaska Native corporations, Native cooperatives or organizations, or such other groups or individuals as may be sponsored by any Native or Indian organization.
(b) Other Federal agencies and the State of Alaska and its subsidiaries, as long as the ultimate beneficiaries are the Alaska Natives or their communities.
(c) Non-Indians and Non-Natives and commercial establishments that economically or materially benefit Alaska Natives or Indians.
(d) The Manager must make reasonable efforts to restrict competition with private enterprise.
§ 142.5
Who determines the rates and conditions of service of the Alaska Resupply Operation?
The general authority of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs to establish rates and conditions for users of the Alaska Resupply Operation is delegated to the Area Director.
(a) The Manager must develop a tariff that establishes rates and conditions for charging users.
(1) The tariff must be approved by the Area Director.
(2) The tariff must be published on or before March 1 of each year.
(3) The tariff must not be altered, amended, or published more frequently than once each year, except in an extreme emergency.
(4) The tariff must be published, circulated and posted throughout Alaska, particularly in the communities commonly and historically served by the resupply operation.
(b) The tariff must include standard freight categories and rate structures that are recognized within the industry, as well as any appropriate specialized warehouse, handling and storage charges.
(c) The tariff must specify rates for return cargo and cargo hauled between ports.
(1) The rates and conditions for the Bureau, other Federal agencies, the State of Alaska and its subsidiaries must be the same as that for Native entities.
(2) Different rates and conditions may be established for non-Indian and non-Native commercial establishments, if those establishments do not meet the standard in § 142.4(c) and no other service is available to that location.
§ 142.6
How are the rates and conditions for the Alaska Resupply Operation established?
The Manager must develop tariff rates using the best modeling techniques available to ensure the most economical service to the Alaska Natives, Indian or Native owned businesses, profit or nonprofit Alaska Native corporations, Native cooperatives or organizations, or such other groups or individuals as may be sponsored by any Native or Indian organization, without enhancing the Federal treasury.
(a) The Area Director's approval of the tariff constitutes a final action for the Department for the purpose of establishing billing rates.
(b) The Bureau must issue a supplemental bill to cover excess cost in the event that the actual cost of a specific freight substantially exceeds the tariff price.
(c) If the income from the tariff substantially exceeds actual costs, a prorated payment will be issued to the shipper.
§ 142.7
How are transportation and scheduling determined?
(a) The Manager must arrange the most economical and efficient transportation available, taking into consideration lifestyle, timing and other needs of the user. Where practical, shipping must be by consolidated shipment that takes advantage of economies of scale and consider geographic disparity and distribution of sites.
(b) Itineraries and scheduling for all deliveries must be in keeping with the needs of the users to the maximum extent possible. Planned itineraries with dates set as to the earliest and latest anticipated delivery dates must be provided to users prior to final commitment by them to utilize the transportation services. Each shipping season the final departure and arrival schedules must be distributed prior to the commencement of deliveries.
§ 142.8
Is economy of operation a requirement for the Alaska Resupply Operation?
Yes. The Manager must ensure that purchasing, warehousing and transportation services utilize the most economical delivery. This may be accomplished by memoranda of agreement, formal contracts, or cooperative arrangements. Whenever possible joint arrangements for economy will be entered into with other Federal agencies, the State of Alaska, Alaska Native cooperatives or other entities providing services to rural Alaska communities.
§ 142.9
How are orders accepted?
(a) The Manager must make a formal determination to accept an order, for goods or services, and document the approval by issuing a permit or similar instrument.
(b) The Seattle Support Center must prepare proper manifests of the freight accepted at the facility or other designated location. The manifest must follow industry standards to ensure a proper legal contract of carriage is executed, upon which payment can be exacted upon the successful delivery of the goods and services.
§ 142.10
How is freight to be prepared?
All freight must be prepared in accordance with industry standards, unless otherwise specified, for overseas shipment, including any pickup, delivery, staging, sorting, consolidating, packaging, crating, boxing, containerizing, and marking that may be deemed necessary by the Manager.
§ 142.11
How is payment made?
(a) Unless otherwise provided in this part, all regulations implementing the Financial Integrity Act, Anti-Deficiency Act, Prompt Payments Act, Debt Collection Act of 1982, 4 CFR Ch. II—Federal Claims Collection Standards, and other like acts apply to the Alaska Resupply Operation.
(b) Payment for all goods purchased and freight or other services rendered by the Seattle Support Center are due and payable upon final receipt of the goods or services. If payment is not received within the time specified on the billing document, interest and penalty fees at the current treasury rate will be charged, and handling and administrative fees may be applied.
(c) Where fuel and other goods are purchased on behalf of commercial enterprises, payment for those goods must be made within 30 days of delivery to the Seattle Support Center Warehouse. Payment for freight must be made within 30 days from receipt of the goods by the shipper.
§ 142.12
What is the liability of the United States for loss or damage?
(a) The liability of the United States for any loss or damage to, or non-delivery of freight is limited by 46 U.S.C. 746 and the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (46 U.S.C. 1300
et seq.
). The terms of such limitation of liability must be contained in any document of title relating to the carriage of goods by sea. This liability may be further restricted in specialized instances as specified in the tariff.
(b) In addition to the standards of conduct and ethics applicable to all government employees, the employees of the Seattle Support Center shall not conduct any business with, engage in trade with, or accept any gifts or items of value from any shipper or permittee.
(c) The Seattle Support Center will continue to function only as long as the need for assistance to Native village economies exits. To that end, a review of the need for the serve must be conducted every five years.
§ 142.13
Information collection.
In accordance with Office of Management and Budget regulations in 5 CFR 1320.4, approval of information collections contained in this regulation is not required.
Pt. 143

# PART 143—CHARGES FOR GOODS AND SERVICES PROVIDED TO NON-FEDERAL USERS
Sec.
143.1
Definitions.
143.2
Purpose.
143.3
Procedures.
143.4
Charges.
143.5
Payment.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701; 25 U.S.C. 2, 13, 413.

# Source:
55 FR 19621, May 10, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 143.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, or other employee to whom authority has been delegated.
(b)
Reservation
means any bounded geographical area established or created by treaty, statute, executive order, or interpreted by court decision and over which a federally recognized Indian Tribal entity may exercise certain jurisdiction.
(c)
Flat fee
is the amount prorated to each user based on the total costs incurred by the Government for the goods/services being provided.
(d)
Non-Federal users
are persons not employed by the Federal Government who receive goods/services provided by the BIA.
(e)
Goods/Services
for the purpose of these regulations are those provided or performed at the request of an indentifiable recipient and are above and beyond those which accrue to the public at large.
§ 143.2
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of the regulations in this part is to establish procedures for the assessment, billing, and collection of charges for goods/services provided to non-Federal users.
(b) The Assistant Secretary may sell or contract to sell to non-Federal users within, or in the immediate vicinity of an Indian Reservation (or former Reservation), any of the following goods/services if it is determined that the goods/services are not available from another local source or providing that goods/services is in the best interest of the Indian tribes or individual Indians. The goods/services include, but are not limited to:
(1) Electric power;
(2) Water;
(3) Sewage operations;
(4) Landfill operations;
(5) Steam;
(6) Compressed air;
(7) Telecommunications;
(8) Natural, manufactured, or mixed gas;
(9) Fuel oil;
(10) Landscaping; and
(11) Garbage collections.
§ 143.3
Procedures.
(a) All non-Federal users who receive the above listed goods/services must sign a standard agreement adopted by the Assistant Secretary for the goods/services. This agreement shall contain the following statement:
“Application for __________ (specify good(s)/service(s)) is hereby requested at the noted address. In exchange for receiving the requested good(s)/service(s), the applicant agrees to accept and abide by all applicable rules, regulations, and rate schedules, including any future amendments, additions, or changes thereto. If the applicant should fail to comply with any of the rules, regulations, or rate schedules, the cost incurred by the United States Government for enforcement of same shall be charged to the applicant.”
(b) Lack of a signed agreement does not invalidate payment requirements. Any user will be responsible for payment of actual goods/services received or delivered.
§ 143.4
Charges.
(a) Charges shall be established by the Assistant Secretary and shall be based upon the total costs (including both direct and indirect) of goods/services to the Government at that locale. A schedule of charges will be made available to the public upon request.
(b) All documentation used in establishing charges must be maintained at the appropriate Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or Area Office and shall be made available for review by the public upon request.
(c) Established charges may be reviewed, amended, and adjusted monthly, but not less than annually.
(d) A flat fee may be charged where it is impractical to measure actual usage by recipients.
(e) Security deposits are authorized under this regulation at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary. The deposit may not exceed the amount of one billing cycle. All deposits will be applied to the final bill.
§ 143.5
Payment.
(a) The Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs will establish a billing cycle that is appropriate to the goods/services being provided.
(b) Payment is due within 30 days after the billing date.
(c) Upon non-payment by the non-Federal user, the Assistant Secretary may discontinue service. Service may be discontinued after proper notification by letter. Proper notification shall include:
(1) Written notice to user that payment is due. Such notice shall afford the user the opportunity to challenge payment or excuse non-payment within 14 days of the date on the notification letter.
(2) Following the expiration of the 14 day deadline for response, and after consideration of any such response, the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs may notify the user by letter that if payment is not received within 10 days of the date on the letter, the service will be discontinued.
(d) The Assistant Secretary has the discretion to continue services for health and safety reasons. However, the non-Federal user is still responsible
for payment for goods/services provided.
(e) Once service has been discontinued based on delinquency of payment, the discontinuance may be appealed under part 2 of this title.

# SUBCHAPTER H—LAND AND WATER
Pt. 150

# PART 150—RECORD OF TITLE TO INDIAN LAND

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
150.1
What is the purpose of this part?
150.2
What terms do I need to know?
150.3
May Tribes administer this part on LTRO's behalf?

# Subpart B—Record of Title to Indian Land
150.101
What is the purpose of the record of title?
150.102
Who maintains the record of title?
150.103
What services does the LTRO perform to maintain the record of title?
150.104
How does the LTRO maintain the record of title?
150.105
Are certain LTRO offices responsible for certain geographic areas?

# Subpart C—Procedures and Requirements to Record Documents
150.201
What is recorded in the record of title?
150.202
Must I check with any other governmental office to find title documents for Indian land?
150.203
Who may submit a title document for recording?
150.204
Who records title documents?
150.205
What are the minimum requirements for recording a title document?
150.206
What actions will the LTRO take if it discovers a title defect?

# Subpart D—Disclosure of Title Documents and Reports
150.301
How does LTRO certify copies of title documents?
150.302
What reports does LTRO provide?
150.303
Who may request and receive copies of title documents in the record of title or reports from LTRO without filing a Freedom of Information Act request?
150.304
Where do I request copies of title documents and reports from LTRO?
150.305
What information must I provide when requesting title documents or reports?
150.306
Will I be charged a fee for obtaining copies of records?

# Subpart E—Records
150.401
Who owns the records associated with this part?
150.402
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
150.403
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 5 U.S.C. 552a; 25 U.S.C. 2; 25 U.S.C. 5; 25 U.S.C. 7; 25 U.S.C. 9; 25 U.S.C. 14b; 25 U.S.C. 25; 25 U.S.C. 199; 25 U.S.C. 343; 25 U.S.C. 355; 25 U.S.C. 413; 25 U.S.C. 2201
et. seq.
; 44 U.S.C. 2901
et. seq.
; 44 U.S.C. 3101
et. seq
.; and 44 U.S.C. 3301
et. seq.

# Source:
86 FR 45641, Aug. 16, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 150.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part describes the BIA repository of title documents for Indian land and responsibilities for recording title documents, maintaining the repository, and providing reports on title to Indian land.
§ 150.2
What terms do I need to know?
Agency
means the BIA agency or field office with jurisdiction over a particular tract of Indian land or another BIA office through delegation and documentation of responsibilities in the Indian Affairs Manual. This term also means any Tribe acting on behalf of the Secretary or BIA under a contract or compact under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
).
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior.
Certified copy
means a copy of a title document that is a true and correct copy of the title document as recorded in the record of title and evidenced by an official seal.
Certify
for the purposes of certifying Title Status Reports, probate inventory reports, title status maps, and findings of title examinations means that an LTRO Certifying Officer has determined that the report, map, or examination of land title status is complete, correct, and current, based on the record of title.
Certifying Officer
means the LTRO Manager or another properly authorized or delegated Federal official who
certifies the status of title to Indian lands or copies of title documents.
Defect
or
title defect
means an error contained within, or created by, a title document that makes the title to Indian land uncertain.
I
or
you
means the person to whom these regulations directly apply.
Indian land
means land, or an interest therein, that is:
(1) Held in trust by the United States for one or more individual Indians or Tribes; or
(2) Owned by one or more individual Indians or Tribes and can only be alienated or encumbered by the owner with the approval of the Secretary because of restrictions or limitations in the conveyance instrument or in Federal law.
Inherently Federal function
means Federal function that may not legally be delegated to an Indian Tribe.
Land
is real property, including any interests, benefits, and rights inherent in the ownership of the real property. Land may include surface and/or subsurface interests
.
LTRO
means the Land Title and Records Office within the BIA, which is responsible for recording title documents, maintaining the record of title, and providing certified copies of title documents and reports. The term LTRO, as used herein, includes any Tribe acting on behalf of the Secretary or BIA under § 150.3.
Manager
is the designated officer in charge of a LTRO office or his or her designated representative.
OHA
means the Office of Hearings and Appeals within the Department of the Interior.
Probate Inventory Report
means a report of Indian land owned by an individual Indian at the time of his or her death.
Record of title
means the BIA's repository of title documents for Indian land.
Recording
is the acceptance of a title document and entry into the record of title of a title document by LTRO. An official LTRO stamp affixed to the title document provides evidence that the title document has been recorded.
Region
means a BIA regional office.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her authorized representative.
Title
means ownership of Indian land.
Title document
means any document that affects the title to or encumbers Indian land, including but not limited to conveyances, probate orders, encumbrances (such as mortgages, liens, permits, covenants, leases, easements, rights-of-way), plats, cadastral surveys, and other surveys.
Title examination
means a review and evaluation by the LTRO of: (1) title documents submitted to it for recording, and (2) the status of title for a particular tract of Indian land based on the record of title, and a finding, certified by the LTRO Manager, that title is complete, correct, current, and without defect, or identifies defects that must be corrected.
Title Status Report
means a report issued after a title examination that shows the proper legal description of a tract of Indian land; current ownership, including any applicable conditions, exceptions, restrictions or encumbrances of record; and whether interests in the land are in unrestricted, restricted, trust, and/or other status as indicated by the record of title in the LTRO.
Tribe
means an Indian Tribe under section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5129(a).
§ 150.3
May Tribes administer this part on LTRO's behalf?
A Tribe may contract or compact under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
) to administer on LTRO's behalf any portion of this part that is not an inherently Federal function.

# Subpart B—Record of Title to Indian Land
§ 150.101
What is the purpose of the record of title?
The record of title provides the BIA with a record of title documents to Indian land and provides constructive notice that the title documents exist.
§ 150.102
Who maintains the record of title?
The LTRO is designated as the office responsible for maintaining the record of title.
§ 150.103
What services does the LTRO perform to maintain the record of title?
The LTRO is responsible for performing the following services to maintain the record of title:
(a) Recording title documents submitted by an Agency, Region, or OHA;
(b) Providing certified copies of the title documents in the record of title in accordance with applicable law;
(c) Examining the record of title and certifying the findings of title examinations;
(d) Providing certified and uncertified Title Status Reports;
(e) Preparing, maintaining, and providing land status maps;
(f) Providing and certifying probate inventory reports; and
(g) Providing other services and reports based upon the information in the record of title.
§ 150.104
How does the LTRO maintain the record of title?
The LTRO maintains the record of title electronically. However, certain title documents may exist only as physical copies and not electronically.
§ 150.105
Are certain LTRO offices responsible for certain geographic areas?
Staff at each LTRO office will have primary responsibility to maintain the record of title for Indian land under that LTRO office's assigned geographic area, based on BIA Region, Tribal reservation, or otherwise, as prescribed by BIA through internal procedures. BIA will keep an updated list of each LTRO office's assigned geographic area of responsibility on
www.bia.gov/bia/ots/dltr.
LTRO offices operated by BIA (as opposed to a Tribe acting on behalf of the Secretary) may assist in maintaining the record of title for Indian land not under their assigned geographic area as needed.

# Subpart C—Procedures and Requirements To Record Documents
§ 150.201
What is recorded in the record of title?
(a) All title documents for Indian land must be recorded in the record of title, regardless of whether the document reflects a transaction that required Secretarial approval. For example, the following do not require Secretarial approval, but are title documents required to be recorded:
(1) Service line agreements must be recorded under 25 CFR 169.56;
(2) Individual leases under approved Helping Expedite and Advance Responsible Tribal Homeownership (HEARTH) Tribal regulations must be recorded under the Indian Affairs Manual (IAM) at 52 IAM 13;
(3) Individual leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way under Tribal Energy Resource Agreements under 25 CFR 224 must be recorded;
(4) Leases between a Tribe and a Tribal energy development organization under 25 CFR 224 must be recorded;
(5) Leases of Tribal land by a 25 U.S.C. 477 corporate entity under its charter to a third party for a period not to exceed 25 years must be recorded under 25 CFR 162.006(b)(3)(i);
(6) Tribal authorization for Tribal utility lines crossing Tribal lands must be recorded under § 169.4(b)(3)(iii); and
(7) Subleasehold mortgages under 25 CFR 162.009 must be recorded.
(b) The requirement in paragraph (a) of this section does not eliminate or supersede any Federal statute or regulation requiring the recording of title documents for Indian land in other records of title, including title documents for Indian land within the jurisdiction of the Five Civilized Tribes or the Osage Nation.
(c) LTRO may also record:
(1) Documents that demonstrate the rights of use, occupancy, and/or benefit of a Tribe to U.S. Government land or other non-Indian lands; and
(2) Certain documents regarding Indian lands that are not title documents.
§ 150.202
Must I check with any other governmental office to find title documents for Indian land?
LTRO maintains current and historical title documents to Indian land but in certain circumstances, due diligence may require examination of other Federal, State, and local records of title.
§ 150.203
Who may submit a title document for recording?
Only an Agency, Region, or OHA may submit title documents to the LTRO for recording. All other government offices and individuals must submit title documents to the Agency, Region, or OHA, as appropriate, for that Agency, Region, or OHA to submit to the LTRO.
§ 150.204
Who records title documents?
The LTRO is the designated office to record title documents. The BIA Director may delegate the authority to record title documents to another BIA office by documenting the delegation and the types of transactions to which it applies in the Indian Affairs Manual.
§ 150.205
What are the minimum requirements for recording a title document?
(a) A title document must include the following information to be recorded in the record of title, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) A legal description of the Indian land encumbered by the title document and, if available, the tract number;
(2) The signatures of the parties to the document;
(3) Proper traditional in-person notarization or other in-person acknowledgment of the signatures of the parties, if applicable;
(4) Signature and citation to the authority of the approving official, if applicable; and
(5) Approval date.
(b) If the title document reflects a transaction that was deemed approved under a statute or regulation providing that a transaction is deemed approved after a certain period of time without Secretarial action to approve or deny, then, at a minimum, the title document must include the following items:
(1) A legal description of the Indian land encumbered by the title document and, if required, the tract number;
(2) The signatures of the parties to the document;
(3) Proper acknowledgement or authentication of the signatures of the parties, if applicable; and
(4) A citation to the statutory or regulatory authority for the transaction to be deemed approved.
§ 150.206
What actions will the LTRO take if it discovers a title defect?
(a) If prior to recording a title document, the LTRO discovers that the title document omits one or more of the items required for recording by § 150.205(a) or (b), then the LTRO will notify the originating office to request correction. Once the omission is corrected, the LTRO will record the title document.
(b) If prior to recording a title document, the LTRO discovers there is an error in one or more of the items required for recording by § 150.205(a) or (b), then the LTRO will record the title document, unless the defect is fatal, with a notation on title and notify the originating office to request correction. Once the error is corrected, the LTRO will record the corrected title document and remove the notation.
(c) If the LTRO discovers a title defect during a title examination, the LTRO will notify the originating office of the defect, request correction, and make a notation in the record of title. Once the defect is corrected, the LTRO will record the corrected title document or other legal instruments to correct the title document and remove the notation.
(d) If the defect is contained in a probate record, the LTRO will notify the Agency or Region to initiate corrective action with the OHA.

# Subpart D—Disclosure of Title Documents and Reports
§ 150.301
How does the LTRO certify copies of title documents?
The Certifying Officer certifies copies of title documents in the record of title by affixing an official seal to the copy of the title document. The official seal attests that the certified copy is a true
and correct copy of the recorded title document.
§ 150.302
What reports does the LTRO provide?
The LTRO provides the following types of reports for Indian land to those persons or entities authorized to receive such information:
(a) Certified reports, including a Title Status Report, Land Status Map, and, as part of the probate record, the Probate Inventory Report; and
(b) Uncertified reports or other reports based upon the information in the record of title.
§ 150.303
Who may request and receive copies of title documents in the record of title or reports from the LTRO without filing a Freedom of Information Act request?
The following individuals and entities may request and receive, through the Region or Agency office, copies of title documents in the record of title or reports for Indian land from the LTRO without filing a Freedom of Information Act request to the extent that disclosure would not violate the Privacy Act or other law restricting access to such records, for example, 25 U.S.C. 2216(e):
(a) Owners of an interest in Indian land (or their legally authorized representative) may request copies of title documents in the record of title or reports for the Indian land in which they own an interest;
(b) The Tribe with jurisdiction over the Indian land may request title documents or reports for Indian land subject to the Tribe's jurisdiction;
(c) Any person (or their legally authorized representative) or entity who is leasing, using, or consolidating Indian land or is applying to lease, use, or consolidate Indian land may request title documents or reports for such Indian land; and
(d) Federal agencies administering Native American homeownership programs and Federal lenders participating in these programs who need information on specific Indian land to provide funding.
§ 150.304
Where do I request copies of title documents or reports from the LTRO?
You may request LTRO information, such as copies of title documents or reports, at any Region or Agency office with access to the record of title, regardless of geographic location. If the Region or Agency office does not have access to the title documents or the ability to generate the reports requested, it will refer the request to the office with access to the title documents or ability to generate the reports requested.
§ 150.305
What information must I provide when requesting copies of title documents and reports?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), to request title documents or reports, you must provide only one of the following items of information:
(1) If you are inquiring about your own interest in the tract, then your name and date of birth, or identification number; or
(2) The name of the reservation where the land is located and either the tract number or legal description; or
(3) The Agency name and either the tract number or legal description; or
(4) A legal description of the tract; or
(5) A title document number pertaining to the tract; or
(6) The allotment number including the Tribe or land area code; or
(7) The name of the original allottee.
(b) Individuals and entities described in § 150.303(c) must also provide documents showing that they are entitled to the information they are requesting from the LTRO because they are leasing, using, or consolidating Indian land or the interests in Indian land, or because they are applying to lease, use, or consolidate Indian land or the interests in Indian land.
§ 150.306
Will I be charged a fee for obtaining copies of records?
(a) The LTRO may charge a fee to any of the parties listed in § 150.303 (c) for each copy of recorded title documents, Title Status Reports, and land status maps to cover the costs in reviewing, preparing, or processing the documents.
(b) The fee will be at the rate established by 43 CFR 2, Appendix A.
(c) The LTRO may waive all or part of these fees, at its discretion.
(d) Paid fees are non-refundable.

# Subpart E—Records
§ 150.401
Who owns the records associated with this part?
(a) The records associated with this part are the property of the United States if they:
(1) Are made or received by the Secretary or a Tribe or Tribal organization in the conduct of a Federal trust function under 25 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.,
including the operation of a trust program; and
(2) Evidence the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities undertaken in the performance of a Federal trust function under this part.
(b) Records not covered by paragraph (a) of this section that are made or received by a Tribe or Tribal organization in the conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part are the property of the Tribe.
§ 150.402
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
(a) Tribes, Tribal organizations, and any other organization that make or receives records described in § 150.401(a) must preserve the records in accordance with approved Departmental records retention procedures under the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. chapters 29, 31 and 33. These records and related records management practices and safeguards required under the Federal Records Act are subject to inspection by the Secretary and the Archivist of the United States.
(b) A Tribe or Tribal organization should preserve the records identified in § 150.401(b) for the period of time authorized by the Archivist of the United States for similar Department of the Interior records in accordance with 44 U.S.C. chapter 33.
§ 150.403
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The information collections contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C 3301
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0196. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the form or regulation containing the collection of information has a currently valid OMB Control Number.
Pt. 151

# PART 151—LAND ACQUISITIONS
Sec.
151.1
What is the purpose of this part?
151.2
How are key terms defined?
151.3
What is the Secretary's land acquisition policy?
151.4
How will the Secretary determine that statutory authority exists to acquire land in trust status?
151.5
May the Secretary acquire land in trust status by exchange?
151.6
May the Secretary approve acquisition of a fractional interest?
151.7
Is Tribal consent required for nonmember acquisitions?
151.8
What documentation is included in a trust acquisition package?
151.9
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land within the boundaries of an Indian reservation?
151.10
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land contiguous to the boundaries of an Indian reservation?
151.11
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land outside of and noncontiguous to the boundaries of an Indian reservation?
151.12
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land for an initial Indian acquisition?
151.13
How will the Secretary act on requests?
151.14
How will the Secretary review title?
151.15
How will the Secretary conduct a review of environmental conditions?
151.16
How are formalization of acceptance and trust status attained?
151.17
What effect does this part have on pending requests and final agency decisions already issued?
151.18
Severability.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 403a-2, 409a, 1466, 1495, 5107, 5108, 5136, 5138, 5201, 5202, 5322, 5341; Pub. L. 71-780, 46 Stat. 1471, amended by Pub. L. 72-231, 47 Stat. 474; Pub. L. 74-816, 49 Stat. 1967, amended by Sec. 10, Pub. L. 80-336, 61 Stat. 734; Secs. 3, 4, 6, Pub. L. 76-238, 53 Stat. 1129, 1130; Sec. 7, Pub. L. 79-706, 60 Stat. 969, amended by Pub. L. 91-627, 84 Stat. 1874; Pub. L. 81-226, 63 Stat. 605; Pub. L. 84-188, 69 Stat. 392, amended by Pub. L. 88-540, 78 Stat. 747, amended by Sec. 213,
Pub. L. 100-581, 102 Stat. 2941, amended by Sec. 1, Pub. L. 101-301, 104 Stat. 206; Pub. L. 84-592, 70 Stat. 290, amended by Pub. L. 91-274, 84 Stat. 301; Pub. L. 84-772, 70 Stat. 626; Sec. 10, Pub. L. 87-231, 75 Stat. 505; Pub. L. 88-196, 77 Stat. 349; Pub. L. 88-418, 78 Stat. 389; Pub. L. 90-335, 82 Stat. 174, amended by Pub. L. 93-286, 88 Stat. 142; Pub. L. 90-534, 82 Stat. 884; Pub. L. 92-312, 86 Stat. 216; Pub. L. 92-377, 86 Stat. 530; Pub. L. 92-443, 86 Stat. 744; Sec. 11, Pub. L. 93-531, 88 Stat. 1716, amended by Sec. 4, Pub. L. 96-305, 94 Stat. 930, amended by Sec. 106, 98-603, 98 Stat. 3157, amended by Secs. 4(b), 8, Pub. L. 100-666, 102 Stat. 3930, 3933.

# Source:
88 FR 86249, Dec. 12, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 151.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part sets forth the authorities, policies, and procedures governing the acquisition of land by the United States in trust status for individual Indians and Tribes. This part does not cover acquisition of land by individual Indians and Tribes in fee simple status even though such land may, by operation of law, be held in restricted status following acquisition; acquisition of land mandated by Federal law; acquisition of land in trust status by inheritance or escheat; or transfers of land into restricted fee status unless required by Federal law.
§ 151.2
How are key terms defined?
Contiguous
means two parcels of land having a common boundary notwithstanding the existence of non-navigable waters or a public road or right-of-way and includes parcels that touch at a point.
Fee interest
means an interest in land that is owned in unrestricted fee simple status and is, thus, freely alienable by the fee owner.
Fractionated tract
means a tract of Indian land owned in common by Indian landowners and/or fee owners holding undivided interests therein.
Indian land
means any tract in which any interest is held by a Tribe or individual Indian in trust or restricted status and includes both individually owned Indian land and Tribal land.
Indian landowner
means a Tribe or individual Indian who owns an interest in Indian land.
Indian reservation
or
Tribe's reservation
means, unless another definition is required by Federal law authorizing a particular trust acquisition, that area of land over which the Tribe is recognized by the United States as having governmental jurisdiction, except that, in the State of Oklahoma wherever historic reservations have not yet been reaffirmed, or where there has been a final judicial determination that a reservation has been disestablished or diminished,
Indian reservation
means that area of land constituting the former reservation of the Tribe as defined by the Secretary.
Individual Indian
means:
(1) Any person who is an enrolled member of a Tribe;
(2) Any person who is a descendent of such a member and said descendant was, on June 1, 1934, physically residing on a federally recognized Indian reservation; or
(3) Any other person possessing a total of one-half or more degree Indian blood of a Tribe.
Initial Indian acquisition
means an acquisition of land in trust status for the benefit of a Tribe that currently has no land held in trust status.
Interested party
means a person or other entity whose legally protected interests would be affected by a decision.
Land
means real property or any interest therein.
Marketable title
means title that a reasonable buyer would accept because it appears to lack substantial defect and that covers the entire property that the seller has purported to sell.
Preliminary Title Opinion
means an opinion issued by the Office of the Solicitor that reviews the existing status of title, examining both record and non-record title evidence and any encumbrances or liens against the land, and sets forth requirements to be met before acquiring land in trust status.
Preliminary title report
means a report prepared by a title company prior to issuing a policy of title insurance that shows the ownership of a specific parcel of land together with the liens and encumbrances thereon.
Restricted land
or
land in restricted status
means land the title to which is held by an individual Indian or a Tribe
and which can only be alienated or encumbered by the owner with the approval of the Secretary due to limitations contained in the conveyance instrument pursuant to Federal law or because a Federal law directly imposes such limitations.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or authorized representative.
Tribe
means any Indian Tribe listed under section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5130). For purposes of acquisitions made under the authority of 25 U.S.C. 5136 and 5138, or other statutory authority which specifically authorizes trust acquisitions for such corporations,
Tribe
also means a corporation chartered under section 17 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 988; 25 U.S.C. 5124) or section 3 of the Act of June 26, 1936 (49 Stat. 1967; 25 U.S.C. 5203).
Trust land
or
land in trust status
means land the title to which is held in trust by the United States for an individual Indian or a Tribe.
Undivided interest
means a fractional share of ownership in an estate of Indian land where the estate is owned in common with other Indian landowners or fee owners.
§ 151.3
What is the Secretary's land acquisition policy?
(a) It is the Secretary's policy to acquire land in trust status through direct acquisition or transfer for individual Indians and Tribes to strengthen self-determination and sovereignty, ensure that every Tribe has protected homelands where its citizens can maintain their Tribal existence and way of life, and consolidate land ownership to strengthen Tribal governance over reservation lands and reduce checkerboarding. The Secretary retains discretion whether to acquire land in trust status where discretion is granted under Federal law. Land not held in trust or restricted status may only be acquired for an individual Indian or a Tribe in trust status when the acquisition is authorized by Federal law. No acquisition of land in trust status under these regulations, including a transfer of land already held in trust or restricted status, shall be valid unless the acquisition is approved by the Secretary.
(b) Subject to the provisions of Federal law authorizing trust land acquisitions, the Secretary may acquire land for a Tribe in trust status:
(1) When the land is located within the exterior boundaries of the Tribe's reservation or contiguous thereto;
(2) When the Tribe already owns an interest in the land; or
(3) When the Secretary determines that the acquisition of the land will further Tribal interests by establishing a Tribal land base or protecting Tribal homelands, protecting sacred sites or cultural resources and practices, establishing or maintaining conservation or environmental mitigation areas, consolidating land ownership, reducing checkerboarding, acquiring land lost through allotment, protecting treaty or subsistence rights, or facilitating Tribal self-determination, economic development, Indian housing, or for other reasons the Secretary determines will support Tribal welfare.
(c) Subject to the provisions contained in Federal law which authorize land acquisitions or holding land in trust or restricted status, the Secretary may acquire land in trust status for an individual Indian:
(1) When the land is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation, or contiguous thereto; or
(2) When the land is already in trust or restricted status.
§ 151.4
How will the Secretary determine that statutory authority exists to acquire land in trust status?
When a Tribe's application relies on the first definition of “Indian” in the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 5101
et seq.
) (IRA) to establish statutory authority for the proposed acquisition, the Secretary will apply the following criteria to determine whether the Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction in 1934.
(a) In determining whether a Tribe was “under Federal jurisdiction” in 1934 within the meaning of section 19 of the IRA (48 Stat. 988; 25 U.S.C. 5129), the Secretary shall consider evidence of Federal jurisdiction in the manner provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Conclusive evidence establishes in and of itself both that a Tribe was
placed under Federal jurisdiction and that this jurisdiction remained intact in 1934. If such evidence exists, no further analysis under this section is needed. The following is conclusive evidence that a Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction in 1934:
(i) A vote under section 18 of the IRA (48 Stat. 988; 25 U.S.C. 5125) to accept or reject the IRA as recorded in
Ten Years of Tribal Government Under I.R.A.,
Theodore Haas, United States Indian Service (Jan. 1947) (Haas List) or other Federal government document;
(ii) Land held in trust by the United States for the Tribe in 1934.
(iii) Secretarial approval of a Tribal constitution under section 16 of the IRA as recorded in the Haas List or other Federal Government document;
(iv) Secretarial approval of a charter of incorporation issued to a Tribe under section 17 of the IRA as recorded in the Haas List or other Federal Government document;
(v) An Executive Order for a specific Tribe that was still in effect in 1934;
(vi) Treaties to which a Tribe is a party, ratified by the United States and still in effect as to that party in 1934;
(vii) Continuing existence in 1934 or later of treaty rights guaranteed by a treaty ratified by the United States; or
(viii) Other evidence that the Secretary determines is conclusive in a particular case.
(2) Presumptive evidence is indicative that a Tribe was placed under Federal jurisdiction in or before 1934 and may indicate that such jurisdiction remained intact in 1934. In the absence of evidence indicating that Federal jurisdiction did not exist or did not exist in 1934, presumptive evidence satisfies the analysis under this section. The following is presumptive evidence that a Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction in 1934:
(i) Evidence of treaty negotiations or evidence a Tribe signed a treaty with the United States whether or not such treaty was ratified by Congress;
(ii) Listing of a Tribe in the Department of the Interior's 1934 Indian Population Report;
(iii) Evidence that the United States took efforts to acquire lands on behalf of a Tribe in the years leading up to the passage of the IRA;
(iv) Inclusion in Volume V of Charles J. Kappler's
Indian Affairs, Laws and Treaties;
(v) Federal legislation for a specific Tribe, including land claim settlements and termination legislation enacted after 1934, which acknowledges the existence of a government-to-government relationship with a Tribe in or before 1934; or
(vi) Satisfaction of the criterion for Federal acknowledgment now located at 25 CFR 83.11(a) and previously located at 25 CFR 83.7(a), requiring that a Tribe “has been identified as an American Indian entity on a substantially continuous basis,” through evidence that brought the Tribe under Federal jurisdiction in or before 1934; or
(vii) Other evidence that the Secretary determines is presumptive in a particular case.
(3) In the absence of evidence identified above as conclusive or presumptive evidence, the Secretary may find that a Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction in 1934 when the United States in 1934 or at some point in the Tribe's history prior to 1934, took an action or series of actions that, when viewed in concert through a course of dealings or other relevant acts on behalf of a Tribe, or in some instances Tribal members, establishes or generally reflects Federal obligations, or duties, responsibility for or authority over the Tribe, and that such jurisdictional status remained intact in 1934.
(i) Examples of Federal actions that exhibit probative evidence of Federal jurisdiction may include but are not limited to, the Department's acquisition of land for a Tribe in implementing the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, efforts by the Federal Government to conduct a vote under section 18 of the IRA to accept or reject the IRA where no vote was held, the attendance of Tribal members at Bureau of Indian Affairs operated schools, Federal decisions regarding whether to remove or not remove a Tribe from its homelands, the inclusion of a Tribe in Federal reports and surveys, the inclusion of a Tribe or Tribal members in Federal census records prepared by the
Office of Indian Affairs, the approval of contracts between a Tribe and non-Indians; enforcement of the Trade and Intercourse Acts (Indian trader, liquor laws, and land transactions), and the provision of health and social services to a Tribe or Tribal members.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) When a Tribe is recognized under the 25 CFR part 83 process, the Secretary may rely on any evidence within the part 83 record that the Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction in or before 1934, consistent with § 151.4(a)(2) and (3).
(5) Evidence of executive officials disavowing Federal jurisdiction over a Tribe in certain instances is not conclusive evidence of a Tribe's Federal jurisdictional status. This is because such disavowals cannot themselves revoke Federal jurisdiction over a Tribe.
(b) For some Tribes, Congress enacted legislation after 1934 making the IRA applicable to the Tribe. The existence of such legislation making the IRA and its trust acquisition provisions applicable to a Tribe eliminates the need to determine whether a Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction in 1934.
(c) In order to be eligible for trust acquisitions under section 5 of the IRA, no additional “under Federal jurisdiction” analysis is required under this part for Tribes for which the Department has previously issued an analysis finding the Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction.
(d) Land may be acquired in trust status for an individual Indian or a Tribe in the State of Oklahoma under section 5 of the IRA if the acquisition comes within the terms of this part. This authority is in addition to all other statutory authority for such an acquisition.
(e) The Secretary may also acquire land in trust status for an individual Indian or a Tribe under this part when specifically authorized by Federal law other than section 5 of the IRA, subject to any limitations contained in that Federal law.
§ 151.5
May the Secretary acquire land in trust status by exchange?
The Secretary may acquire land in trust status on behalf of an individual Indian or Tribe by exchange under this part if authorized by Federal law and within the terms of this part. The disposal aspects of an exchange are governed by part 152 of this title.
§ 151.6
May the Secretary approve acquisition of a fractional interest?
Where the mandatory acquisition process provided under 25 U.S.C. 2216(c) is not applicable to a fractional interest acquisition,
e.g.,
where the acquisition proposed is off-reservation, the following section applies to discretionary acquisitions of fractional interests. The Secretary may approve the acquisition of a fractional interest in a fractionated tract in trust status by an individual Indian or a Tribe including when:
(a) The applicant already owns a fractional interest in the same parcel of land;
(b) The interest being acquired by the applicant is in fee status;
(c) The applicant offers to purchase the remaining undivided trust or restricted interests in the parcel at not less than their fair market value;
(d) There is a specific law which grants to the applicant the right to purchase an undivided interest or interests in trust or restricted land without offering to purchase all such interests; or
(e) The owner or owners of more than fifty percent of the remaining trust or restricted interests in the parcel consent in writing to the acquisition by the applicant.
§ 151.7
Is Tribal consent required for nonmember acquisitions?
An individual Indian or Tribe may acquire land in trust status on an Indian reservation other than its own only when the governing body of the Tribe having jurisdiction over such reservation consents in writing to the acquisition; provided, that such consent shall not be required if the individual Indian or the Tribe already owns an undivided trust or restricted interest in the parcel of land to be acquired.
§ 151.8
What documentation is included in a trust acquisition package?
An individual Indian or Tribe seeking to acquire land in trust status must
file a written request,
i.e.,
application, with the Secretary. The request need not be in any special form but must set out the identity of the parties, a description of the land to be acquired, and other information which would show that the acquisition fulfills the requirements of this part. The Secretary will prepare the acquisition package using information provided by the applicant and analysis developed by the Secretary, as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section:
(a) A complete acquisition package consists of the following:
(1) The applicant must submit a request that the land be acquired in trust, as follows:
(i) If the applicant is an Indian Tribe, the Tribe's written request must be a signed Tribal letter for trust acquisition supported by a Tribal resolution or other act of the governing body of the Tribe;
(ii) If the applicant is an individual Indian, the individual's written request must be a signed letter requesting trust status;
(2) The applicant must submit documentation providing the information evaluated by the Secretary under § 151.9(a)(2) and (3), § 151.10(a)(2) and (3), § 151.11(a)(2) and (3), or § 151.12(a)(2) and (3) depending on which section applies to the application;
(3) The applicant must submit a statement identifying the existence of statutory authority for the acquisition including, if applicable, any supporting evidence that the Tribe was under Federal jurisdiction in 1934 pursuant to § 151.4.
(4) The applicant must submit a description of the land as follows:
(i) An aliquot part, government lot, parcel identified on a Government Land Office or Bureau of Land Management official survey plat, or lot block subdivision (LBS) legal description of the land and a map from the applicant, including a statement of the estate to be acquired,
e.g.,
all surface and mineral rights, surface rights only, surface rights and a portion of the mineral rights, etc.; or
(ii) A metes and bounds land description and survey if the land cannot be described by the methods listed in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, including a statement of the estate to be acquired. The survey may be completed by a land surveyor registered in the jurisdiction in which the land is located when the land being acquired is fee simple land; and
(iii) An application package is not complete until the Secretary determines that the legal description or survey is sufficient.
(5) The applicant must submit information that allows the Secretary to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and 602 DM 2, Land Acquisitions: Hazardous Substances Determinations pursuant to § 151.15; and
(i) An acquisition package is not complete until the public review period of a final environmental impact statement or, where appropriate, the final environmental assessment has concluded, or the categorical exclusion documentation is complete.
(ii) An acquisition package is not complete until a pre-acquisition Phase I environmental site assessment, and if necessary, a Phase II environmental site assessment completed pursuant to 602 DM 2 is determined to be sufficient by the Secretary.
(6) The applicant must submit title evidence pursuant to § 151.14.
(i) An acquisition package is not complete until the Secretary completes a Preliminary Title Opinion based on such evidence;
(ii) [Reserved]
(7) The Secretary shall send notification letters pursuant to § 151.9, § 151.10, § 151.11, or § 151.12.
(8) The applicant must submit a statement that any existing covenants, easements, or restrictions of record will not interfere with the applicant's intended use of the land; and
(9) The applicant must submit any additional information or action requested by the Secretary, in writing, if warranted by the specific application.
(b) After the Bureau of Indian Affairs is in possession of a complete acquisition package, the Secretary shall:
(1) Notify the applicant within 30 calendar days in writing that the acquisition package is complete; and
(2) Issue a decision on a request within 120 calendar days after issuance of
the notice of a complete acquisition package.
§ 151.9
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land within the boundaries of an Indian reservation?
(a) The Secretary shall consider the criteria in this section when evaluating requests for the acquisition of land in trust status when the land is located within the boundaries of an Indian reservation.
(1) The existence of statutory authority for the acquisition and any limitations contained in such authority;
(2) If the applicant is an individual Indian, the need for additional land, the amount of trust or restricted land already owned by or for that individual, and the degree to which the individual needs assistance in handling their affairs;
(3) The purposes for which the land will be used; and
(4) If the land to be acquired is in fee status, whether the Bureau of Indian Affairs is equipped to discharge the additional responsibilities resulting from the acquisition of the land in trust status.
(b) The Secretary shall give great weight to acquiring land that serves any of the following purposes, in accordance with § 151.3:
(1) Furthers Tribal interests by establishing a Tribal land base or protects Tribal homelands;
(2) Protects sacred sites or cultural resources and practices;
(3) Establishes or maintains conservation or environmental mitigation areas;
(4) Consolidates land ownership;
(5) Reduces checkerboarding;
(6) Acquires land lost through allotment;
(7) Protects treaty or subsistence rights; or
(8) Facilitates Tribal self-determination, economic development, or Indian housing.
(c) When reviewing a Tribe's request for land within the boundaries of an Indian reservation, the Secretary presumes that the acquisition will further the Tribal interests described in paragraph (b) of this section, and adverse impacts to local governments' regulatory jurisdiction, real property taxes, and special assessments will be minimal, therefore the application should be approved.
(d) Upon receipt of a written request to have land acquired in trust within the boundaries of an Indian reservation the Secretary shall notify the State and local governments with regulatory jurisdiction over the land to be acquired of the applicant's request. The notice will inform the State or local government that each will be given 30 calendar days in which to provide written comments to rebut the presumption of minimal adverse impacts to regulatory jurisdiction, real property taxes, and special assessments. If the State or local government responds within 30 calendar days, a copy of the comments will be provided to the applicant, who will be given a reasonable time in which to reply, if they choose to do so in their discretion, or request that the Secretary issue a decision. In considering such comments, the Secretary presumes that the Tribal community will benefit from the acquisition.
§ 151.10
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land contiguous to the boundaries of an Indian reservation?
(a) The Secretary shall consider the criteria in this section when evaluating requests for the acquisition of land in trust status when the land is located contiguous to an Indian reservation:
(1) The existence of statutory authority for the acquisition and any limitations contained in such authority;
(2) If the applicant is an individual Indian, the need for additional land, the amount of trust or restricted land already owned by or for that individual, and the degree to which the individual needs assistance in handling their affairs;
(3) The purposes for which the land will be used; and
(4) If the land to be acquired is in fee status, whether the Bureau of Indian Affairs is equipped to discharge the additional responsibilities resulting from the acquisition of the land in trust status.
(b) The Secretary shall give great weight to acquiring land that serves
any of the following purposes, in accordance with § 151.3:
(1) Furthers Tribal interests by establishing a Tribal land base or protects Tribal homelands;
(2) Protects sacred sites or cultural resources and practices;
(3) Establishes or maintains conservation or environmental mitigation areas;
(4) Consolidates land ownership;
(5) Reduces checkerboarding;
(6) Acquires land lost through allotment;
(7) Protects treaty or subsistence rights; or
(8) Facilitates Tribal self-determination, economic development, or Indian housing.
(c) When reviewing a Tribe's request for land contiguous to an Indian reservation, the Secretary presumes that the acquisition will further the Tribal interests described in paragraph (b) of this section, and adverse impacts to local governments' regulatory jurisdiction, real property taxes, and special assessments will be minimal, therefore the application should be approved.
(d) Upon receipt of a written request to have land contiguous to an Indian reservation acquired in trust status, the Secretary shall notify the State and local governments with regulatory jurisdiction over the land to be acquired. The notice will inform the State or local government that each will be given 30 calendar days in which to provide written comments to rebut the presumption of minimal adverse impacts to regulatory jurisdiction, real property taxes, and special assessments. If the State or local government responds within 30 calendar days, a copy of the comments will be provided to the applicant, who will be given a reasonable time in which to reply, if they choose to do so in their discretion, or request that the Secretary issue a decision. In considering such comments, the Secretary presumes that the Tribal community will benefit from the acquisition.
§ 151.11
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land outside of and noncontiguous to the boundaries of an Indian reservation?
(a) The Secretary shall consider the criteria in this section when evaluating requests for the acquisition of land in trust status when the land is located outside of and noncontiguous to an Indian reservation:
(1) The existence of statutory authority for the acquisition and any limitations contained in such authority;
(2) If the applicant is an individual Indian and the land is already held in trust or restricted status, the need for additional land, the amount of trust or restricted land already owned by or for that individual, and the degree to which the individual needs assistance in handling their affairs;
(3) The purposes for which the land will be used; and
(4) If the land to be acquired is in fee status, whether the Bureau of Indian Affairs is equipped to discharge the additional responsibilities resulting from the acquisition of the land in trust status.
(b) The Secretary shall give great weight to acquiring land that serves any of the following purposes, in accordance with § 151.3:
(1) Furthers Tribal interests by establishing a Tribal land base or protects Tribal homelands;
(2) Protects sacred sites or cultural resources and practices;
(3) Establishes or maintains conservation or environmental mitigation areas;
(4) Consolidates land ownership;
(5) Reduces checkerboarding;
(6) Acquires land lost through allotment;
(7) Protects treaty or subsistence rights; or
(8) Facilitates Tribal self-determination, economic development, or Indian housing.
(c) Upon receipt of a written request to have land outside the boundaries of an Indian reservation acquired in trust status, the Secretary shall notify the State and local governments with regulatory jurisdiction over the land to be acquired. The notice will inform the State or local government that each will be given 30 calendar days in which to provide written comments on the acquisition's potential impact on regulatory jurisdiction, real property taxes, and special assessments. If the State or local government responds within 30 calendar days, a copy of the comments
will be provided to the applicant, who will be given a reasonable time in which to reply, if they choose to do so in their discretion, or request that the Secretary issue a decision. In reviewing such comments, the Secretary will consider the location of the land and potential conflicts of land use. The Secretary presumes that the Tribe will benefit from the acquisition.
§ 151.12
How will the Secretary evaluate a request involving land for an initial Indian acquisition?
(a) The Secretary shall consider the criteria in this section when evaluating requests for the acquisition of land in trust status when a Tribe does not have a reservation or land held in trust.
(1) The existence of statutory authority for the acquisition and any limitations contained in such authority;
(2) The purposes for which the land will be used; and
(3) If the land to be acquired is in fee status, whether the Bureau of Indian Affairs is equipped to discharge the additional responsibilities resulting from the acquisition of the land in trust status.
(b) The Secretary shall give great weight to acquiring land that serves any of the following purposes, in accordance with § 151.3:
(1) Furthers Tribal interests by establishing a Tribal land base or protects Tribal homelands;
(2) Protects sacred sites or cultural resources and practices;
(3) Establishes or maintains conservation or environmental mitigation areas;
(4) Consolidates land ownership;
(5) Reduces checkerboarding;
(6) Acquires land lost through allotment;
(7) Protects treaty or subsistence rights; or
(8) Facilitates Tribal self-determination, economic development, or Indian housing.
(c) When reviewing a request for a Tribe that does not have a reservation or land held in trust, the Secretary presumes that the acquisition will further the Tribal interests described in paragraph (b) of this section, and adverse impacts to local governments' regulatory jurisdiction, real property taxes, and special assessments will be minimal, therefore the application should be approved.
(d) Upon receipt of a written request for land to be acquired in trust when a Tribe does not have a reservation or land held in trust, the Secretary shall notify the State and local governments with regulatory jurisdiction over the land to be acquired. The notice will inform the State or local government that each will be given 30 calendar days in which to provide written comments to rebut the presumption of minimal adverse impacts to regulatory jurisdiction, real property taxes, and special assessments. If the State or local government responds within 30 calendar days, a copy of the comments will be provided to the applicant, who will be given a reasonable time in which to reply, if they choose to do so in their discretion, or request that the Secretary issue a decision. In reviewing such comments, the Secretary will consider the location of the land and potential conflicts of land use. The Secretary presumes that the Tribe will benefit from the acquisition.
§ 151.13
How will the Secretary act on requests?
(a) The Secretary shall review each request and may request any additional information or justification deemed necessary to reach a decision.
(b) The Secretary's decision to approve or deny a request shall be in writing and state the reasons for the decision.
(c) A decision made by the Office of the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs pursuant to delegated authority, is a final agency action under 5 U.S.C. 704 upon issuance.
(1) If the Office of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary denies the request, the Assistant Secretary shall promptly provide the applicant with the decision.
(2) If the Office of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary approves the request, the Assistant Secretary shall:
(i) Promptly provide the applicant with the decision;
(ii) Promptly publish notice in the
Federal Register
of the decision to acquire land in trust status under this part; and
(iii) Immediately acquire the land in trust status under § 151.16 after the date such decision is issued and upon fulfillment of the requirements of any other Department of the Interior requirements.
(d) A decision made by a Bureau of Indian Affairs official, rather than the Office of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority, is not a final agency action of the Department of the Interior under 5 U.S.C. 704 until administrative remedies are exhausted under part 2 of this chapter and under 43 CFR part 4, subpart D, or until the time for filing a notice of appeal has expired and no administrative appeal has been filed. Administrative appeals are governed by part 2 of this chapter and by 43 CFR part 4, subpart D.
(1) If the official denies the request, the official shall promptly provide the applicant with the decision and notification of the right to file an administrative appeal under part 2 of this chapter.
(2) If the official approves the request, the official shall:
(i) Promptly provide the applicant with the decision;
(ii) Promptly provide written notice, by U.S. mail or personal delivery, of the decision and the right, if any, to file an administrative appeal of such decision under part 2 of this chapter and 43 CFR part 4, subpart D to:
(A) Interested parties who have made themselves known, in writing, to the official prior to the decision being made; and
(B) The State and local governments having regulatory jurisdiction over the land to be acquired;
(iii) Promptly publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation serving the affected area of the decision and the right, if any, of interested parties who did not make themselves known, in writing, to the official to file an administrative appeal of the decision under part 2 of this chapter; and
(iv) Immediately acquire the land in trust status under § 151.16 upon expiration of the time for filing a notice of appeal or upon exhaustion of administrative remedies under part 2 of this chapter and under 43 CFR part 4, subpart D, and upon the fulfillment of any other Department of the Interior requirements.
(3) The administrative appeal period begins on:
(i) The date of receipt of written notice by the applicant or interested parties entitled to notice under paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) The date of first publication of the notice for unknown interested parties under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, which shall be deemed the date of receipt of the decision.
(4) Any party who wishes to seek judicial review of an official's decision must first exhaust administrative remedies under 25 CFR part 2 and under 43 CFR part 4, subpart D.
§ 151.14
How will the Secretary review title?
(a) The applicant must submit title evidence as part of a complete acquisition package as described in § 151.8 as follows:
(1) The deed or other conveyance instrument providing evidence of the applicant's title or, if the applicant does not yet have title, the deed providing evidence of the transferor's title and a written agreement or affidavit from the transferor that title will be transferred to the United States on behalf of the applicant to complete the acquisition in trust status; and
(2) Either:
(i) A current title insurance commitment issued by a title company; or
(ii) The policy of title insurance issued by a title company to the applicant or current owner and an abstract of title issued by a title compact dating from the time the policy of title insurance was issued to the applicant or current owner to the present. The Secretary may accept a preliminary title report or equivalent document prepared by a title company in place of an abstract of title for purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) if the applicant provides evidence that the title company will not issue an abstract of title based on practice in the local jurisdiction, subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) The applicant may choose to provide title evidence meeting the title
standards issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, in lieu of the evidence required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) After reviewing title evidence, the Secretary shall notify the applicant of any liens, encumbrances, or infirmities that the Secretary identified and may seek additional information or action from the applicant needed to address such issues. The Secretary may require the elimination of any such liens, encumbrances, or infirmities prior to acceptance of the land in trust status if the Secretary determines that the liens, encumbrances, or infirmities make title to the land unmarketable.
§ 151.15
How will the Secretary conduct a review of environmental conditions?
(a) The Secretary shall comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (43 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), applicable Council on Environmental Quality regulations (40 CFR parts 1500-1508), and Department of the Interior regulations (43 CFR part 46) and guidance. The Secretary's compliance may require preparation of an environmental impact statement, an environmental assessment, a categorical exclusion, or other documentation that satisfies the requirements of NEPA.
(b) The Secretary shall comply with the terms of 602 DM 2, Land Acquisitions: Hazardous Substances Determinations, or its successor policy if replaced or renumbered, so long as such guidance remains in place and binding. If the Secretary approves a request for the acquisition of land in trust status, the Secretary may then require, before formalization of acceptance pursuant to § 151.16, that the applicant provide information updating a prior pre-acquisition environmental site assessment conducted under 602 DM 2.
(1) If no recognized environmental conditions or other environmental issues of concern are identified in the pre-acquisition environmental site assessment or before formalization of acceptance and all other requirements of this section and §§ 151.13 and 151.14 are met, the Secretary shall acquire the land in trust.
(2) If recognized environmental conditions or other environmental issues of concern are identified in the pre-acquisition environmental site assessment or before formalization of acceptance, the Secretary shall notify the applicant and may seek additional information or action from the applicant to address such issues of concern. The Secretary may require the elimination of any such issues of concern prior to the formalization of acceptance.
§ 151.16
How are formalization of acceptance and trust status attained?
(a) The Secretary shall formalize acceptance of land in trust status by signing an instrument of conveyance. The Secretary shall sign the instrument of conveyance after the requirements of §§ 151.13, 151.14, and 151.15 have been met.
(b) The land will attain trust status when the Secretary signs the instrument of conveyance.
(c) The Secretary shall record the deed with LTRO pursuant to part 150 of this chapter.
§ 151.17
What effect does this part have on pending requests and final agency decisions already issued?
(a) Requests pending on January 11, 2024 will continue to be processed under 25 CFR part 151 (revised as of April 1, 2023) unless the applicant requests in writing to proceed under this part.
(1) Upon receipt of such a request, the Secretary shall process the pending application under this part, except for § 151.8(b)(2).
(2) The Secretary shall consider the comments of State and local governments submitted under the notice provisions of 25 CFR part 151 (revised as of April 1, 2023).
(b) This part does not alter decisions of Bureau of Indian Affairs Officials under appeal on January 11, 2024 or final agency decisions made before January 11, 2024.
§ 151.18
Severability.
If any provision of this part, or any application of a provision, is stayed or determined to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions or applications are severable and shall continue in effect.
Pt. 152

# PART 152—ISSUANCE OF PATENTS IN FEE, CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY, REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS, AND SALE OF CERTAIN INDIAN LANDS
Sec.
152.1
Definitions.
152.2
Withholding action on application.

# Issuing Patents in Fee, Certificates of Competency or Orders Removing Restrictions
152.3
Information regarding status of applications for removal of Federal supervision over Indian lands.
152.4
Application for patent in fee.
152.5
Issuance of patent in fee.
152.6
Issuance of patents in fee to non-Indians and Indians with whom a special relationship does not exist.
152.7
Application for certificate of competency.
152.8
Issuance of certificate of competency.
152.9
Certificates of competency to certain Osage adults.
152.10
Application for orders removing restrictions, except Five Civilized Tribes.
152.11
Issuance of orders removing restrictions, except Five Civilized Tribes.
152.12
Removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, after application under authority other than section 2(a) of the Act of August 11, 1955.
152.13
Removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, after application under section 2(a) of the Act of August 11, 1955.
152.14
Removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, without application.
152.15
Judicial review of removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, without application.
152.16
Effect of order removing restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes.

# Sales, Exchanges And Conveyances Of Trust Or Restricted Lands
152.17
Sales, exchanges, and conveyances by, or with the consent of the individual Indian owner.
152.18
Sale with the consent of natural guardian or person designated by the Secretary.
152.19
Sale by fiduciaries.
152.20
Sale by Secretary of certain land in multiple ownership.
152.21
Sale or exchange of tribal land.
152.22
Secretarial approval necessary to convey individual-owned trust or restricted lands or land owned by a tribe.
152.23
Applications for sale, exchange or gift.
152.24
Appraisal.
152.25
Negotiated sales, gifts and exchanges of trust or restricted lands.
152.26
Advertisement.
152.27
Procedure of sale.
152.28
Action at close of bidding.
152.29
Rejection of bids; disapproval of sale.
152.30
Bidding by employees.
152.31
Cost of conveyance; payment.
152.32
Irrigation fee; payment.

# Partitions in Kind of Inherited Allotments
152.33
Partition.

# Mortgages and Deeds of Trust To Secure Loans to Indians
152.34
Approval of mortgages and deeds of trust.
152.35
Deferred payment sales.

# Authority:
R.S. 161; 5 U.S.C. 301. Interpret or apply sec. 7, 32 Stat. 275, 34 Stat. 1018, sec. 1, 35 Stat. 444, sec. 1 and 2, 36 Stat. 855, as amended, 856, as amended, sec. 17, 39 Stat. 127, 40 Stat. 579, 62 Stat. 236, sec. 2, 40 Stat. 606, 68 Stat. 358, 69 Stat. 666: 25 U.S.C. 378, 379, 405, 404, 372, 373, 483, 355, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross References:
For further regulations pertaining to the sale of irrigable lands, see parts 160, 159 and § 134.4 of this chapter. For Indian money regulations, see parts 115, 111, 116, and 112 of this chapter. For regulations pertaining to the determination of heirs and approval of wills, see part 15 and subpart G of part 11 of this chapter.

# Source:
38 FR 10080, Apr. 24, 1973, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 152.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
(b)
Agency
means an Indian agency or other field unit of the Bureau of Indian Affairs having trust or restricted Indian land under its immediate jurisdiction.
(c)
Restricted land
means land or any interest therein, the title to which is held by an individual Indian, subject to Federal restrictions against alienation or encumbrance.
(d)
Trust land
means land or any interest therein held in trust by the United States for an individual Indian.
(e)
Competent
means the possession of sufficient ability, knowledge, experience, and judgment to enable an individual to manage his business affairs,
including the administration, use, investment, and disposition of any property turned over to him and the income or proceeds therefrom, with such reasonable degree of prudence and wisdom as will be apt to prevent him from losing such property or the benefits thereof. (Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 666)).
(f)
Tribe
means a tribe, band, nation, community, group, or pueblo of Indians.
§ 152.2
Withholding action on application.
Action on any application, which if approved would remove Indian land from restricted or trust status, may be withheld, if the Secretary determines that such removal would adversely affect the best interest of other Indians, or the tribes, until the other Indians or the tribes so affected have had a reasonable opportunity to acquire the land from the applicant. If action on the application is to be withheld, the applicant shall be advised that he has the right to appeal the withholding action pursuant to the provisions of part 2 of this chapter.

# Issuing Patents in Fee, Certificates of Competency or Orders Removing Restrictions
§ 152.3
Information regarding status of applications for removal of Federal supervision over Indian lands.
The status of applications by Indians for patents in fee, certificates of competency, or orders removing restrictions shall be disclosed to employees of the Department of the Interior whose duties require that such information be disclosed to them; to the applicant or his attorney, upon request; and to Members of Congress who inquire on behalf of the applicant. Such information will be available to all other persons, upon request, 15 days after the fee patent has been issued by the Bureau of Land Management, or 15 days after issuance of certificate of competency or order removing restrictions, or after the application has been rejected and the applicant notified. Where the termination of the trust or restricted status of the land covered by the application would adversely affect the protection and use of Indian land remaining in trust or restricted status, the owners of the land that would be so affected may be informed that the application has been filed.
§ 152.4
Application for patent in fee.
Any Indian 21 years of age or over may apply for a patent in fee for his trust land. A written application shall be made in the form approved by the Secretary and shall be completed and filed with the agency having immediate jurisdiction over the land.
§ 152.5
Issuance of patent in fee.
(a) An application may be approved and fee patent issued if the Secretary, in his discretion, determines that the applicant is competent. When the patent in fee is delivered, an inventory of the estate covered thereby shall be given to the patentee. (Acts of Feb. 8, 1887 (24 Stat. 388), as amended (25 U.S.C. 349); June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 855), as amended (25 U.S.C. 372); and May 14, 1948 (62 Stat. 236; 25 U.S.C. 483), and other authorizing acts.)
(b) If an application is denied, the applicant shall be notified in writing, given the reasons therefor and advised of his right to appeal pursuant to the provisions of part 2 of this chapter.
(c) White Earth Reservation: The Secretary will, pursuant to the Act of March 1, 1907 (34 Stat. 1015), issue a patent in fee to any adult mixed-blood Indian owning land within the White Earth Reservation in the State of Minnesota upon application from such Indian, and without consideration as to whether the applicant is competent.
(d) Fort Peck Reservation: Pursuant to the Act of June 30, 1954 (68 Stat. 358), oil and gas underlying certain allotments in the Fort Peck Reservation were granted to certain Indians to be held in trust for such Indians and provisions was made for issuance of patents in fee for such oil and gas or patents in fee for land in certain circumstances.
(1) Where an Indian or Indians were the grantees of the entire interest in the oil and gas underlying a parcel of land, and such Indian or Indians had before June 30, 1954, been issued a patent or patents in fee for any land within the Fort Peck Reservation, the title
to the oil and gas was conveyed by the act in fee simple status.
(2) Where the entire interest in the oil and gas granted by the act is after June 30, 1954, held in trust for Indians to whom a fee patent has been issued at any time, for any land within the Fort Peck Reservation, or who have been or are determined by the Secretary to be competent, the Secretary will convey, by patent, without application, therefor, unrestricted fee simple title to the oil and gas.
(3) Where the Secretary determines that the entire interest in a tract of land on the Fort Peck Reservation is owned by Indians who were grantees of oil and gas under the act and he determines that such Indians are competent, he will issue fee patents to them covering all interests in the land without application.
§ 152.6
Issuance of patents in fee to non-Indians and Indians with whom a special relationship does not exist.
Whenever the Secretary determines that trust land, or any interest therein, has been acquired through inheritance or devise by a non-Indian, or by a person of Indian descent to whom the United States owes no trust responsibility, the Secretary may issue a patent in fee for the land or interest therein to such person without application.
§ 152.7
Application for certificate of competency.
Any Indian 21 years old or over, except certain adult members of the Osage Tribe as provided in § 152.9, who holds land or an interest therein under a restricted fee patent may apply for a certificate of competency. The written application shall be made in the form approved by the Secretary and filed with the agency having immediate jurisdiction over the land.
§ 152.8
Issuance of certificate of competency.
(a) An application may be approved and a certificate of competency issued if the Secretary, in his discretion, determines that the applicant is competent. The delivery of the certificate shall have the effect of removing the restrictions from the land described therein. (Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 855), as amended (25 U.S.C. 372).)
(b) If the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified in writing, given the reasons therefor and advised of his right to appeal pursuant to the provisions of part 2 of this chapter.
§ 152.9
Certificates of competency to certain Osage adults.
Applications for certificates of competency by adult members of the Osage Tribe of one-half or more Indian blood shall be in the form approved by the Secretary. Upon the finding by the Secretary that an applicant is competent, a certificate of competency may be issued removing restrictions against alienation of all restricted property and terminating the trust on all restricted property, except Osage headright interests, of the applicant.

# Cross References:
For regulations pertaining to the issuance of certificates of competency to adult Osage Indians of less than one-half Indian blood, see part 154 of this chapter.
§ 152.10
Application for orders removing restrictions, except Five Civilized Tribes.
Any Indian not under legal disability under the laws of the State where he resides or where the land is located, or the court-appointed guardian or conservator of any Indian, may apply for an order removing restrictions from his restricted land or the restricted land of his ward. The application shall be in writing setting forth reasons for removal of restrictions and filed with the agency having immediate jurisdiction over the lands.
§ 152.11
Issuance of orders removing restrictions, except Five Civilized Tribes.
(a) An application for an order removing restrictions may be approved and such order issued by the Secretary, in his discretion, if he determines that the applicant is competent or that removal of restrictions is in the best interests of the Indian owner. The effect of the order will be to remove the restrictions from the land described therein.
(b) If the application is denied, the applicant will be notified in writing,
given the reasons therefor and advised of his right to appeal pursuant to the provisions of part 2 of this chapter.
§ 152.12
Removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, after application under authority other than section 2(a) of the Act of August 11, 1955.
When an Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes makes application for removal of restrictions from his restricted lands under authority other than section 2(a) of the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 666), such application may be for either unconditional removal of restrictions or conditional removal of restrictions, but shall not include lands or interest in lands acquired by inheritance or devise.
(a) If the application is for unconditional removal of restrictions and the Secretary, in his discretion, determines the applicant should have the unrestricted control of that land described in his application, the Secretary may issue an order removing restrictions therefrom.
(b) When the Secretary, in his discretion, finds that in the best interest of the applicant all or part of the land described in the application should be sold with conditions concerning terms of sale and disposal of the proceeds, the Secretary may issue a conditional order removing restrictions which shall be effective only and simultaneously with the execution of a deed by said applicant upon completion of an advertised sale or negotiated sale acceptable to the Secretary.
§ 152.13
Removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, after application under section 2(a) of the Act of August 11, 1955.
When an Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes makes application for removal of restrictions under authority of section 2(a) of the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 666), the Secretary will determine the competency of the applicant.
(a) If the Secretary determines the applicant to be competent, he shall issue an order removing restrictions having the effect stated in § 152.16.
(b) If the Secretary rejects the application, his action is not subject to administrative appeal, notwithstanding the provisions concerning appeals in part 2 of this chapter.
(c) If the Secretary rejects the application, or neither rejects nor approves the application within 90 days of the application date, the applicant may apply to the State district court in the county in which he resides for an order removing restrictions. If that State district court issues such order, it will have the effect stated in § 152.16.
§ 152.14
Removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, without application.
Section 2(b) of the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 666), authorizes the Secretary to issue an order removing restrictions to an Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes without application therefor. When the Secretary determines an Indian to be competent, he shall notify the Indian in writing of his intent to issue an order removing restrictions 30 days after the date of the notice. This decision may be appealed under the provisions of part 2 of this chapter within such 30 days. All administrative appeals under that part will postpone the issuance of the order. When the decision is not appealed within 30 days after the date of notice, or when any dismissal of an appeal is not appealed within the prescribed time limit, or when the final appeal is dismissed, an order removing restrictions will be issued.
§ 152.15
Judicial review of removal of restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes, without application.
When an order removing restrictions is issued, pursuant to § 152.14, a copy of such order will be delivered to the Indian, to any person acting in his behalf, and to the Board of County Commissioners for the county in which the Indian resides. At the time the order is delivered written notice will be given the parties that under the terms of the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 666), the Indian or the Board of County Commissioners has, within 6 months of the date of notification, the right to appeal to the State district court for the district in which the Indian resides for an order setting aside the order removing restrictions. The timely initiation of proceedings in the State district court will stay the effective date of the order
removing restrictions until such proceedings are concluded. If the State district court dismisses the appeal, the order removing restrictions will become effective 6 months after notification to the parties of such dismissal. The effect of the issuance of such order will be as prescribed in § 152.16.
§ 152.16
Effect of order removing restrictions, Five Civilized Tribes.
An order removing restrictions issued pursuant to the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 666), on its effective date shall serve to remove all jurisdiction and supervision of the Bureau of Indian Affairs over money and property held by the United States in trust for the individual Indian or held subject to restrictions against alienation imposed by the United States. The Secretary shall cause to be turned over to the Indian full ownership and control of such money and property and issue in the case of land such title document as may be appropriate:
Provided,
That the Secretary may make such provisions as he deems necessary to insure payment of money loaned to any such Indian by the Federal Government or by an Indian tribe;
And provided further,
That the interest of any lessee or permittee in any lease, contract, or permit that is outstanding when an order removing restrictions becomes effective shall be preserved as provided in section 2(d) of the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 666).

# Sales, Exchanges and Conveyances of Trust or Restricted Lands
§ 152.17
Sales, exchanges, and conveyances by, or with the consent of the individual Indian owner.
Pursuant to the Acts of May 27, 1902 (32 Stat. 275; 25 U.S.C. 379); May 17, 1906 (34 Stat. 197), as amended August 2, 1956 (70 Stat. 954; 48 U.S.C. 357); March 1, 1907 (34 Stat. 1018; 25 U.S.C. 405); May 29, 1908 (35 Stat. 444; 25 U.S.C. 404); June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 855; 25 U.S.C. 372), as amended May 25, 1926 (44 Stat. 629; 48 U.S.C. 355a-355d); June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 464); and May 14, 1948 (62 Stat. 236; 25 U.S.C. 483); and pursuant to other authorizing acts, trust or restricted lands acquired by allotment, devise, inheritance, purchase, exchange, or gift may be sold, exchanged, and conveyed by the Indian owner with the approval of the Secretary or by the Secretary with the consent of the Indian owner.
§ 152.18
Sale with the consent of natural guardian or person designated by the Secretary.
Pursuant to the Act of May 29, 1908 (35 Stat. 444; 25 U.S.C. 404), the Secretary may, with the consent of the natural guardian of a minor, sell trust or restricted land belonging to such minor; and the Secretary may, with the consent of a person designated by him, sell trust or restricted land belonging to Indians who are minor orphans without a natural guardian, and Indians who are non compos mentis or otherwise under legal disability. The authority contained in this act is not applicable to lands in Oklahoma, Minnesota, and South Dakota, nor to lands authorized to be sold by the Act of May 14, 1948 (62 Stat. 236; 25 U.S.C. 483).
§ 152.19
Sale by fiduciaries.
Guardians, conservators, or other fiduciaries appointed by State courts, or by tribal courts operating under approved constitutions or law and order codes, may, upon order of the court, convey with the approval of the Secretary or consent to the conveyance by the Secretary of trust or restricted land belonging to their Indian wards who are minors, non compos mentis or otherwise under legal disability. This section is subject to the exceptions contained in 25 U.S.C. 954(b).
§ 152.20
Sale by Secretary of certain land in multiple ownership.
Pursuant to the Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 855), as amended (25 U.S.C. 372), if the Secretary decides that one or more of the heirs who have inherited trust land are incapable of managing their own affairs, he may sell any or all interests in that land. This authority is not applicable to lands authorized to be sold by the Act of May 14, 1948 (62 Stat. 236; 25 U.S.C. 483).
§ 152.21
Sale or exchange of tribal land.
Certain tribal land may be sold or exchanged pursuant to the Acts of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 415; 25 U.S.C. 294); June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C.
464); August 10, 1939 (53 Stat. 1351; 25 U.S.C. 463(e)); July 1, 1948 (62 Stat. 1214); June 4, 1953 (67 Stat. 41; 25 U.S.C. 293(a)); July 28, 1955 (69 Stat. 392), as amended August 31, 1964 (78 Stat. 747; 25 U.S.C. 608-608c); June 18, 1956 (70 Stat. 290; 25 U.S.C. 403a-2); July 24, 1956 (70 Stat. 626); May 19, 1958 (72 Stat. 121; 25 U.S.C. 463, Note); September 2, 1958 (72 Stat. 1762); April 4, 1960 (74 Stat. 13); April 29, 1960 (74 Stat. 85); December 11, 1963 (77 Stat. 349); August 11, 1964 (78 Stat. 389), and pursuant to other authorizing acts. Except as otherwise provided by law, and as far as practicable, the regulations in this part 152 shall be applicable to sale or exchanges of such tribal land.
§ 152.22
Secretarial approval necessary to convey individual-owned trust or restricted lands or land owned by a tribe.
(a)
Individual lands.
Trust or restricted lands, except inherited lands of the Five Civilized Tribes, or any interest therein, may not be conveyed without the approval of the Secretary. Moreover, inducing an Indian to execute an instrument purporting to convey any trust land or interest therein, or the offering of any such instrument for record, is prohibited and criminal penalties may be incurred. (See 25 U.S.C. 202 and 348.)
(b)
Tribal lands.
Lands held in trust by the United States for an Indian tribe, lands owned by a tribe with Federal restrictions against alienation and any other land owned by an Indian tribe may only be conveyed where specific statutory authority exists and then only with the approval of the Secretary unless the Act of Congress authorizing sale provides that approval is unnecessary. (See 25 U.S.C. 177.)
§ 152.23
Applications for sale, exchange or gift.
Applications for the sale, exchange or gift of trust or restricted land shall be filed in the form approved by the Secretary with the agency having immediate jurisdiction over the land. Applications may be approved if, after careful examination of the circumstances in each case, the transaction appears to be clearly justified in the light of the long-range best interest of the owner or owners or as under conditions set out in § 152.25(d).
§ 152.24
Appraisal.
Except as otherwise provided by the Secretary, an appraisal shall be made indicating the fair market value prior to making or approving a sale, exchange, or other transfer of title of trust or restricted land.
§ 152.25
Negotiated sales, gifts and exchanges of trust or restricted lands.
Those sales, exchanges, and gifts of trust or restricted lands specifically described in the following paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section may be negotiated; all other sales shall be by advertised sale, except as may be otherwise provided by the Secretary.
(a)
Consideration not less than the appraised fair market value.
Indian owners may, with the approval of the Secretary, negotiate a sale of and sell trust or restricted land for not less than the appraised fair market value:
(1) When the sale is to the United States, States, or political subdivisions thereof, or such other sale as may be for a public purpose;
(2) When the sale is to the tribe or another Indian; or
(3) When the Secretary determines it is impractical to advertise.
(b)
Exchange at appraised fair market value.
With the approval of the Secretary, Indian owners may exchange trust or restricted land, or a combination of such land and other things of value, for other lands or combinations of land and other things of value. The value of the consideration received by the Indian in the exchange must be at least substantially equal to the appraised fair market value of the consideration given by him.
(c)
Sale to coowners.
With the approval of the Secretary, Indian owners may negotiate a sale of and sell trust or restricted land to a coowner of that land. The consideration may be less than the appraised fair market value, if in the opinion of the Secretary there is a special relationship between the coowners or special circumstances exist.
(d)
Gifts and conveyances for less than the appraised fair market value.
With the approval of the Secretary, Indian owners may convey trust or restricted
land, for less than the appraised fair market value or for no consideration when the prospective grantee is the owner's spouse, brother, sister, lineal ancestor of Indian blood or lineal descendant, or when some other special relationship exists between the grantor and grantee or special circumstances exist that in the opinion of the Secretary warrant the approval of the conveyance.
§ 152.26
Advertisement.
(a) Upon approval of an application for an advertised sale, notice of the sale will be published not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for the sale unless for good cause a shorter period is authorized by the Secretary.
(b) The notice of sale will include:
(1) Terms, conditions, place, date, hour, and methods of sale, including explanation of auction procedure as set out in § 152.27(b)(2) if applicable;
(2) Where and how bids shall be submitted;
(3) A statement warning all bidders against violation of 18 U.S.C. 1860 prohibiting unlawful combination or intimidation of bidders or potential bidders; and
(4) Description of tracts, all reservations to which title will be subject and any restrictions and encumbrances of record with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and any other information that may improve sale prospects.
§ 152.27
Procedure of sale.
Advertised sales shall be by sealed bids except as otherwise provided herein.
(a)(1) Bids, conforming to the requirements set out in the advertisement of sale, along with a certified check, cashier's check, money order, or U.S. Treasury check, payable to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, for not less than 10 percent of the amount of the bid, must be enclosed in a sealed envelope marked as prescribed in the notice of sale. A cash deposit may be submitted in lieu of the above-specified negotiable instruments at the bidder's risk. Tribes submitting bids pursuant to this paragraph may guarantee the required 10 percent deposit by an appropriate resolution;
(2) The sealed envelopes containing the bids will be publicly opened at the time fixed for sale. The bids will be announced and will be appropriately recorded.
(b) The policy of the Secretary recognizes that in many instances a tribe or a member thereof has a valid interest in acquiring trust or restricted lands offered for sale.
(1) With the consent of the owner and when the notice of sale so states, the tribe or members of such tribe shall have the right to meet the high bid.
(2) Provided the tribe is not the high bidder and when one or more acceptable sealed bids are received and when so stated in the notice of sale, an oral auction may be held following the bid opening. Bidding in the auction will be limited to the tribe, and to those who submitted sealed bids at 75 percent or more of the appraised value of the land being auctioned. At the conclusion of the auction the highest bidder must increase his deposit to not less than 10 percent of his auction bid.
§ 152.28
Action at close of bidding.
(a) The officer in charge of the sale shall publicly announce the apparent highest acceptable bid. The deposits submitted by the unsuccessful bidders shall be returned immediately. The deposit submitted by the apparent successful bidder shall be held in a special account.
(b) If the highest bid received at an advertised sale is less than the appraised fair market value of the land, the Secretary with the consent of the owner may accept that bid if the amount bid approximates said appraised fair market value and in the Secretary's judgment is the highest price that may be realized in the circumstances.
(c) The Secretary shall award the bid and notify the apparent successful bidder that the remainder of the purchase price must be submitted within 30 days.
(1) Upon a showing of cause the Secretary may, in his discretion, extend the time of payment of the balance due.
(2) If the remainder of the purchase price is not paid within the time allowed, the bid will be rejected and the
apparent successful bidder's 10 percent deposit will be forfeited to the landowner's use.
(d) The issuance of the patent or delivery of a deed to the purchaser will not be authorized until the balance of the purchase price has been paid, except that the fee patent may be ordered in cases where the purchaser is obtaining a loan from an agency of the Federal Government and such agency has given the Secretary a commitment that the balance of the purchase price will be paid when the fee patent is issued.
§ 152.29
Rejection of bids; disapproval of sale.
The Secretary reserves the right to reject any and all bids before the award, after the award, or at any time prior to the issuance of a patent or delivery of a deed, when he shall have determined such rejection to be in the best interests of the Indian owner.
§ 152.30
Bidding by employees.
Except as authorized by the provisions of part 140 of this chapter, no person employed in Indian Affairs shall directly or indirectly bid, make, or prepare any bid, or assist any bidder in preparing his bid. Sales between Indians, either of whom is an employee of the U.S. Government, are governed by the provisions of part 140 of this chapter (see 25 U.S.C. 68 and 441).
§ 152.31
Cost of conveyance; payment.
Pursuant to the Act of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 415), as amended by the Act of March 1, 1933 (47 Stat. 1417; 25 U.S.C. 413), the Secretary may in his discretion collect from a purchaser reasonable fees for work performed or expense incurred in the transaction. The amount so collected shall be deposited to the credit of the United States as general fund receipts, except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section.
(a)(1) The amount of the fee shall be $22.50 for each transaction.
(2) The fee may be reduced to a lesser amount or may be waived, if the Secretary determines circumstances justify such action.
(b)(1) If any or all of the costs of the work performed or expenses incurred are paid with tribal funds, an alternate schedule of fees may be established, subject to approval of the Secretary, and that part of such fees deemed appropriate may be credited to the tribe.
(2) When the purchaser is the tribe which bears all or any part of such costs, the collection of the proportionate share from the tribe may be waived.
§ 152.32
Irrigation fee; payment.
Collection of all construction costs against any Indian-owned lands within Indian irrigation projects is deferred as long as Indian title has not been extinguished. (Act of July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564; 25 U.S.C. 386a)). This statute is interpreted to apply only where such land is owned by Indians either in trust or restricted status.
(a) When any person whether Indian or non-Indian acquires Indian lands in a fee simple status that are part of an Indian irrigation project he must enter into an agreement,
(1) To pay the pro rata share of the construction of the project chargeable to the land,
(2) To pay all construction costs that accrue in the future, and
(3) To pay all future charges assessable to the land which are based on the annual cost of operation and maintenance of the irrigation system.
(b) Any operation and maintenance charges that are delinquent when Indian land is sold will be deducted from the proceeds of sale unless other acceptable arrangements are made to provide for their payment prior to the approval of the sale.
(c) A lien clause covering all unpaid irrigation construction costs, past and future, will be inserted in the patent or other instrument of conveyance issued to all purchasers of restricted or trust lands that are under an Indian irrigation project.

# Cross Reference:
See part 159 and part 160 and cross-references thereunder in this chapter for further regulations regarding sale of irrigable lands.

# Partitions in Kind of Inherited Allotments
§ 152.33
Partition.
(a)
Partition without application.
If the Secretary of the Interior shall find that any inherited trust allotment or allotments (as distinguished from lands held in a restricted fee status or authorized to be sold under the Act of May 14, 1948 (62 Stat. 236; 25 U.S.C. 483)), are capable of partition in kind to the advantage of the heirs, he may cause such lands to be partitioned among them, regardless of their competency, patents in fee to be issued to the competent heirs for their shares and trust patents to be issued to the incompetent heirs for the lands respectively or jointly set apart to them, the trust period to terminate in accordance with the terms of the original patent or order of extension of the trust period set out in said patent. (Act of May 18, 1916 (39 Stat. 127; 25 U.S.C. 378)). The authority contained in the Act of May 18, 1916, is not applicable to lands authorized to be sold by the Act of May 14, 1948, nor to land held in restricted fee status.
(b)
Application for partition.
Heirs of a deceased allottee may make written application, in the form approved by the Secretary, for partition of their trust or restricted land. If the Secretary finds the trust lands susceptible of partition, he may issue new patents or deeds to the heirs for the portions set aside to them. If the allotment is held under a restricted fee title (as distinguished from a trust title), partition may be accomplished by the heirs executing deeds approved by the Secretary, to the other heirs for their respective portions.

# Mortgages and Deeds of Trust To Secure Loans to Indians
§ 152.34
Approval of mortgages and deeds of trust.
Any individual Indian owner of trust or restricted lands, may with the approval of the Secretary execute a mortgage or deed of trust to his land. Prior to approval of such mortgage or deed of trust, the Secretary shall secure appraisal information as he deems advisable. Such lands shall be subject to foreclosure or sale pursuant to the terms of the mortgage or deed of trust in accordance with the laws of the State in which the lands are located. For the purpose of foreclosure or sale proceedings under this section, the Indian owners shall be regarded as vested with unrestricted fee simple title to the lands (Act of March 29, 1956).
(70 Stat. 62; 25 U.S.C. 483a)
§ 152.35
Deferred payment sales.
When the Indian owner and purchaser desire, a sale may be made or approved on the deferred payment plan. The terms of the sale will be incorporated in a memorandum of sale which shall constitute a contract for delivery of title upon payment in full of the amount of the agreed consideration. The deed executed by the grantor or grantors will be held by the Superintendent and will be delivered only upon full compliance with the terms of sale. If conveyance of title is to be made by fee patent, request therefor will be made only upon full compliance with the terms of the sale. The terms of the sale shall require that the purchaser pay not less than 10 percent of the purchase price in advance as required by the Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 855), as amended (25 U.S.C. 372); terms for the payment of the remaining installments plus interest shall be those acceptable to the Secretary and the Indian owner. If the purchaser on any deferred payment plan makes default in the first or subsequent payments, all payments, including interest, previously made will be forfeited to the Indian owner.
Pt. 153

# PART 153—DETERMINATION OF COMPETENCY: CROW INDIANS
Sec.
153.1
Purpose of regulations.
153.2
Application and examination.
153.3
Application form.
153.4
Factors determining competency.
153.5
Children of competent Indians.
153.6
Appeals.

# Authority:
Sec. 12, 41 Stat. 755, 46 Stat. 1495, as amended.

# Source:
22 FR 10563, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 153.1
Purpose of regulations.
The regulations in this part govern the procedures in determining the competency of Crow Indians under Public Law 303, 81st Congress, approved September 8, 1949.
§ 153.2
Application and examination.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs or his duly authorized representative, upon the application of any unenrolled adult member of the Crow Tribe, shall classify him by placing his name to the competent or incompetent rolls established pursuant to the act of June 4, 1920 (41 Stat. 751), and upon application shall determine whether those persons whose names now or hereafter appear on the incompetent roll shall be reclassified as competent and their names placed on the competent roll.
§ 153.3
Application form.
The application form shall include, among other things:
(a) The name of the applicant;
(b) His age, residence, degree of Indian blood, and education;
(c) His experience in farming, cattle raising, business, or other occupation (including home-making);
(d) His present occupation, if any;
(e) A statement concerning the applicant's financial status, including his average earned and unearned income for the last two years from restricted leases and from other sources, and his outstanding indebtedness to the United States, to the tribe, or to others;
(f) A description of his property and its value, including his allotted and inherited lands; and
(g) The name of the applicant's spouse, if any, and the names of his minor children, if any, and their ages, together with a statement regarding the land, allotted and inherited, held by each.
§ 153.4
Factors determining competency.
Among the matters to be considered by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs in determining competency are the amount of the applicant's indebtedness to the tribe, to the United States Government, and to others; whether he is a public charge or a charge on friends and relatives, or will become such a charge, by reason of being classed as competent; and whether the applicant has demonstrated that he possesses the ability to take care of himself and his property, to protect the interests of himself and his family, to lease his land and collect the rentals therefrom, to lease the land of his minor children, to prescribe in lease agreements those provisions which will protect the land from deterioration through over-grazing and other improper practices, and to assume full responsibility for obtaining compliance with the terms of any lease.
§ 153.5
Children of competent Indians.
Children of competent Indians who have attained or upon attaining their majority shall automatically become competent except any such Indian who is declared incompetent by a court of competent jurisdiction or who is incompetent under the laws of the State within which he resides.
§ 153.6
Appeals.
An appeal to the Secretary of the Interior may be made within 30 days from the date of notice to the applicant of the decision of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
Pt. 158

# PART 158—OSAGE LANDS
Sec.
158.51
Definitions.
158.52
Application for change in designation of homestead.
158.53
Order to change designation of homestead.
158.54
Exchanges of restrictive lands.
158.55
Institution of partition proceedings.
158.56
Partition records.
158.57
Approval of deeds or other instruments vesting title on partition and payment of costs.
158.58
Disposition of proceeds of partition sales.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301. Interpret or apply 62 Stat. 18; 25 U.S.C. 331 note.

# Source:
22 FR 10565, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 158.51
Definitions.
When used in this part:
(a)
Homestead
means the restricted nontaxable lands, not exceeding 160 acres, allotted to an enrolled member
of the Osage Tribe pursuant to the act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 539), or the restricted surplus lands designated in lieu thereof pursuant to the act of May 25, 1918 (40 Stat. 578).
(b)
Surplus land
means those restricted lands, other than the homestead, allotted to an enrolled member of the Osage Tribe pursuant to the act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 539).
§ 158.52
Application for change in designation of homestead.
Any Osage allottee or the legal guardian thereof may make application to change his homestead for an equal area of his surplus land. The application shall give in detail the reasons why such change is desired and shall be submitted to the Osage Indian Agency on the form “Application to Change Designation of Homestead.”
§ 158.53
Order to change designation of homestead.
The application of an Osage allottee, or his legal guardian, may be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, or his authorized representative, and an order issued to change designation of homestead, if it is found that the applicant owns an equal area of surplus land. The expense of recording the order shall be borne by the applicant. The order to change designation shall be made on the form “Order to Change Designation of Homestead.”
§ 158.54
Exchanges of restrictive lands.
Upon written application of the Indians involved, the exchange of restricted lands between adult Indians, and between adult Indians and non-Indians, may be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, or his authorized representative. Title to all lands acquired under this part by an Indian who does not have a certificate of competency shall be taken by deed containing a clause restricting alienation or encumbrance without the consent of the Secretary, or his authorized representative. In case of differences in the appraised value of lands under consideration for exchange, the application of an Indian for funds to equalize such differences may be approved to the extent authorized by § 117.8 of this chapter.
§ 158.55
Institution of partition proceedings.
(a) Prior authorization should be obtained from the Secretary, or his authorized representative, before the institution of proceedings to partition the lands of deceased Osage allottees in which any interest is held by an Osage Indian not having a certificate of competency. Requests for authority to institute such partition proceedings shall contain a description of the lands involved, the names of the several owners and their respective interests and the reasons for such court action. Authorization may be given for the institution of partition proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction when it appears to the best interest of the Indians involved to do so and the execution of voluntary exchange deeds is impracticable.
(b) When it appears to the best interest of the Indians to do so, the Secretary's, or his authorized representative's, authorization to institute partition proceedings may require that title to the lands be quieted in the partition action in order that the deeds issued pursuant to the proceedings shall convey good and merchantable title to the grantee therein. (See section 6, 37 Stat. 87.)
§ 158.56
Partition records.
Upon completion of an action in partition, a copy of the judgment roll showing schedule of costs and owelty moneys having accrued to or from the several parties, together with deeds, or other instruments vesting title on partition, in triplicate, shall be furnished to the Osage Agency. The original allotment number shall follow the legal description on all instruments vesting title. When a grantee is a member of the Osage Tribe who has not received a certificate of competency, deeds or other instruments vesting title shall contain the following clause against alienation:
Subject to the condition that while title to the above-described lands shall remain in the grantee or his Osage Indian heirs or devisees who do not have certificates of competency, the same shall not be alienated or encumbered without approval of the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
§ 158.57
Approval of deeds or other instruments vesting title on partition and payment of costs.
Upon completion of the partition proceedings in accordance with the law and in conformity with the regulations in this part, the Secretary, or his authorized representative, may approve the deeds, or other instruments vesting title on partition, and may disburse from the restricted (accounts) funds of the Indians concerned, such amounts as may be necessary for payment of their share of court costs, attorney fees, and owelty moneys.
§ 158.58
Disposition of proceeds of partition sales.
Owelty moneys due members of the Osage Tribe who do not have certificates of competency shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States and placed to the credit of the Indians upon the same conditions as attach to segregated shares of the Osage national fund.
Pt. 159

# PART 159—SALE OF IRRIGABLE LANDS, SPECIAL WATER CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

# Cross References:
For additional regulations pertaining to the payment of fees and charges in connection with the sale of irrigable lands, see part 160 and §§ 134.4 and 152.21 of this chapter. For general regulations pertaining to the issuance of patents in fee, see part 152 of this chapter.
§ 159.1
Conditions of contract.
(a) The form of contract (Form 5-462b)
1
for sale of irrigable lands specifically provides that the purchaser will obligate and pay on a per acre basis all irrigation charges assessed or to be assessed against the land purchased including accrued assessment, which accrued assessment shall be paid prior to the approval of the sale, and for the payment of the construction and operation and maintenance assessments on the due dates of each year. The agreement is to be acknowledged and recorded in the county records in which county the land is situated. The charges incidental to the recording of the instrument shall be paid by the purchaser at the time of executing the agreement.
1
Forms may be obtained from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Washington, D.C.
(b) A strict compliance with the terms of paragraph (a) of this section is absolutely necessary and required.
(Secs. 1, 3, 36 Stat. 270, 272, as amended; 25 U.S.C. 385. Interprets or applies sec. 1, 41 Stat. 409; 25 U.S.C. 386)
[22 FR 10566, Dec. 24, 1957. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]

# Note:
On May 12, 1921, Circular No. 1677, re sale of irrigable lands, was addressed to all superintendents. It was pointed out therein that the collection of irrigation construction charges was required by the terms of an act approved February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 409; 25 U.S.C. 386), and that in addition to the construction charge there was an operation and maintenance charge assessable annually that must be paid by the landowners benefited; furthermore, that the purpose of this circular was to point out to the superintendents the necessity of advising prospective purchasers that irrigation charges must be paid and that a so-called paid-up water right was not conveyed with the land. A form of agreement to be executed by the prospective purchaser accompanied this circular.
It has been brought to the attention of the Bureau that irrigation construction charges and operation and maintenance charges have accrued against irrigable allotments prior to the time of their being advertised for sale and that the superintendents have failed to provide for payment of the accrued irrigation charges, with the result that no means are apparent for their collection.
With a view of preventing any future misunderstanding the form of contract accompanying Circular No. 1677 has been redrafted and Form 5-462b assigned to it. The circular has been designated “No. 1677a.”
Pt. 160

# PART 160—INCLUSION OF LIENS IN ALL PATENTS AND INSTRUMENTS EXECUTED
Sec.
160.1
Liens.
160.2
Instructions.
160.3
Leases to include description of lands.
160.4
Prompt payment of irrigation charges by lessees.

# Authority:
Secs. 1, 3, 36 Stat. 270, 272, as amended; 25 U.S.C. 385.

# Source:
22 FR 10566, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 160.1
Liens.
The act of March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 210; 25 U.S.C. 387) creates a first lien against irrigable lands under all Indian irrigation projects where the construction, operation and maintenance costs of such projects remain unpaid and are reimbursable, and directs that such lien shall be recited in any patent or instrument issued for such lands to cover such unpaid charges. Prior to the enactment of this legislation similar liens had been created by legislative authority against irrigable lands of the projects on the Fort Yuma, Colorado River, and Gila River Reservations, in Arizona; Blackfeet, Fort Peck, Flathead, Fort Belknap, and Crow Reservations, Mont.; Wapato project, Yakima Reservation, Wash.; the irrigable lands on the Colville Reservation within the West Okanogan irrigation district, Washington, and the Fort Hall Reservation, Idaho. This legislation, therefore, extends protection similar to that existing in the legislation applicable to the projects on the reservations above mentioned.

# Cross References:
For operation and maintenance charges and construction costs, see parts 134 and 137 of this chapter.
§ 160.2
Instructions.
All superintendents and other officers are directed to familiarize themselves with this provision of law, and in all cases involving the issuance of patents or deeds direct to the Indian or purchaser of Indian allotments embracing irrigable lands, they will recite in the papers forwarded to the Department for action the fact that the lands involved are within an irrigation project (giving the name) and accordingly are subject to the provisions of this law. This requirement will be in addition to the existing regulations requiring the superintendents in case of sales of irrigable lands to obtain from the project engineer a written statement relative to the irrigability of the lands to be sold, and whether or not there are any unpaid irrigation charges, together with the estimated per acre construction cost assessable against the land involved in the sale. Each sale will also be accompanied by contract executed in accordance with regulations obligating the purchaser to pay the accrued charges, namely, construction, operation, and maintenance, prior to the approval of the sale and to assume and pay the unassessed irrigation charges in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior.

# Cross References:
For additional regulations pertaining to the payment of fees and charges in connection with the sale of irrigable lands, see part 159 and §§ 134.4 and 152.21 of this chapter.
§ 160.3
Leases to include description of lands.
It is important, also, for superintendents in leasing irrigable lands to present to the project engineer lists containing descriptions of the lands involved for his approval of the irrigable acreage and for checking as to whether or not such lands are in fact irrigable under existing works. Strict compliance with this section is required for the purpose of avoiding error.
§ 160.4
Prompt payment of irrigation charges by lessees.
Superintendents will also see that irrigation charges are promptly paid by lessees, and where such charges are not so paid take appropriate and prompt action for their collection. Such unpaid charges are a lien against the land, and accordingly any failure on the part of the superintendents to collect same increases the obligation against the land.
Pt. 161

# PART 161—NAVAJO PARTITIONED LANDS GRAZING PERMITS

# Subpart A—Definitions, Authority, Purpose and Scope
Sec.
161.1
What definitions do I need to know?
161.2
What are the Secretary's authorities under this part?
161.3
What is the purpose of this part?
161.4
To what lands does this part apply?
161.5
Can BIA waive the application of this part?
161.6
Are there any other restrictions on information given to BIA?

# Subpart B—Tribal Policies and Laws Pertaining to Permits
161.100
Do tribal laws apply to grazing permits?
161.101
How will tribal laws be enforced on the Navajo Partitioned Lands?
161.102
What notifications are required that tribal laws apply to grazing permits on the Navajo Partitioned Lands?

# Subpart C—General Provisions
161.200
Is an Indian agricultural resource management plan required?
161.201
Is environmental compliance required?
161.202
How are range units established?
161.203
Are range management plans required?
161.204
How are carrying capacities and stocking rates established?
161.205
How are range improvements treated?
161.206
What must a permittee do to protect livestock from exposure to disease?
161.207
What livestock are authorized to graze?

# Subpart D—Permit Requirements
161.300
When is a permit needed to authorize grazing use?
161.301
What will a grazing permit contain?
161.302
What restrictions are placed on grazing permits?
161.303
How long is a permit valid?
161.304
Must a permit be recorded?
161.305
When is a decision by BIA regarding a permit effective?
161.306
When are permits effective?
161.307
When may a permittee commence grazing on Navajo Partitioned Land?
161.308
Must a permittee comply with standards of conduct if granted a permit?

# Subpart E—Reissuance of Grazing Permits
161.400
What are the criteria for reissuing grazing permits?
161.401
Will new permits be granted after the initial reissuance of permits?
161.402
What are the procedures for reissuing permits?
161.403
How are grazing permits allocated within each range unit?

# Subpart F—Modifying A Permit
161.500
May permits be transferred, assigned or modified?
161.501
When will a permit modification be effective?
161.502
Will a special land use require permit modification?

# Subpart G—Permit Violations
161.600
What permit violations are addressed by this subpart?
161.601
How will BIA monitor permit compliance?
161.602
Will my permit be canceled for non-use?
161.603
Can mediation be used in the event of a permit violation or dispute?
161.604
What happens if a permit violation occurs?
161.605
What will a written notice of a permit violation contain?
161.606
What will BIA do if the permitee doesn't cure a violation on time?
161.607
What appeal bond provisions apply to permit cancellation decisions?
161.608
When will a permit cancellation be effective?
161.609
Can BIA take emergency action if the rangeland is threatened?
161.610
What will BIA do if livestock is not removed when a permit expires or is cancelled?

# Subpart H—Trespass
161.700
What is trespass?
161.701
What is BIA's trespass policy?
161.702
Who will enforce this subpart?

# Notification
161.703
How are trespassers notified of a trespass determination?
161.704
What can a permittee do if they receive a trespass notice?
161.705
How long will a written trespass notice remain in effect?

# Actions
161.706
What actions does BIA take against trespassers?
161.707
When will BIA impound unauthorized livestock or other property?
161.708
How are trespassers notified of impoundments?
161.709
What happens after unauthorized livestock or other property are impounded?
161.710
How can impounded livestock or other property be redeemed?
161.711
How will BIA sell impounded livestock or other property?

# Penalties, Damages, and Costs
161.712
What are the penalties, damages, and costs payable by trespassers?
161.713
How will BIA determine the amount of damages to Navajo Partitioned Lands?
161.714
How will BIA determine the costs associated with enforcement of the trespass?
161.715
What will BIA do if a trespasser fails to pay penalties, damages and costs?
161.716
How are the proceeds from trespass distributed?
161.717
What happens if BIA does not collect enough money to satisfy the penalty?

# Subpart I—Concurrence/Appeals/Amendments
161.800
How does the Navajo Nation provide concurrence to BIA?
161.801
May decisions under this part be appealed?
161.802
How will the Navajo Nation recommend amendments to this part?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2; 5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 640d
et seq.

# Source:
70 FR 58888, Oct. 7, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions, Authority, Purpose, and Scope
§ 161.1
What definitions do I need to know?
Agricultural Act
means the American Indians Agricultural Resource Management Act (AIARMA) of December 3, 1993 (107 Stat. 2011, 25 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
), and amended on November 2, 1994 (108 Stat. 4572).
Agricultural resource management plan
means a 10-year plan developed through the public review process specifying the tribal management goals and objectives developed for tribal agricultural and grazing resources. Plans developed and approved under AIARMA will govern the management and administration of Indian agricultural resources and Indian agricultural lands by BIA and Indian tribal governments.
Allocation
means the number of animal units authorized in each grazing permit.
Animal Unit (AU)
means one adult cow and her 6-month-old calf or the equivalent thereof based on comparable forage consumption. Thus as defined in the following:
(1) One adult sheep or goat is equivalent to one-fifth (0.20) of an AU;
(2) One adult horse, mule, or burro is equivalent to one and one quarter (1.25) AU; or
(3) One adult llama is equivalent to three-fifths (0.60) of an AU.
Appeal
means a written request for review of an action or the inaction of an official of the Bureau of Indian Affairs that is claimed to adversely affect the interested party making the request.
Appeal Bond
means a bond posted upon filing of an appeal that provides a security or guaranty if an appeal creates a delay in implementing our decision that could cause a significant and measurable financial loss to another party.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior.
Bond
means security for the performance of certain permit obligations, as furnished by the permittee, or a guaranty of such performance as furnished by a third-party surety.
Business day
means Monday through Friday, excluding federally or tribally recognized holidays.
Carrying capacity
means the number of livestock and/or wildlife, which may be sustained on a management unit compatible with management objectives for the unit.
Concurrence
means the written agreement of the Navajo Nation with a policy, action, decision or finding submitted for consideration by BIA.
Conservation practice
refers to any management measure taken to maintain or improve the condition, productivity, sustainability, or usability of targeted resources.
Customary Use Area
refers to an area to which an individual traditionally confined his or her traditional grazing use and occupancy and/or an area traditionally inhabited by his or her ancestors.
Day
means a calendar day, unless otherwise specified.
Enumeration
means the list of persons living on and identified improvements located within the Former Joint Use Area obtained through interviews conducted by BIA in 1974 and 1975.
Former Joint Use Area
means the area that was divided between the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe by the Judgment of Partition issued April 18, 1979, by the United States District Court for the District of Arizona. This area was established by the United States District Court for the District of Arizona in
Healing
v.
Jones,
210 F. Supp. 125 (1962), aff'd. 373 U.S. 758 (1963) and is located:
(1) Inside the Executive Order area (Executive Order of December 16, 1882); and
(2) Outside Land Management District 6.
Grazing Committee
means the District Grazing Committee established by the Navajo Nation Council, that is responsible for enforcing and implementing tribal grazing regulations on the Navajo Partitioned Lands.
Grazing Permit
means a revocable privilege granted in writing and limited to entering on and utilizing forage by domestic livestock on a specified range unit. The term as used herein shall include authorizations issued to enable the crossing or trailing of domestic livestock within an assigned range unit.
Historical Land Use
see Customary Use Area.
Improvement
means any structure or excavation to facilitate management of the range for livestock, such as: Fences, cattle guards, spring developments, windmills, stock ponds, and corrals.
Livestock
means horses, cattle, sheep, goats, mules, burros, donkeys, and llamas.
Management Unit
is a subdivision of a geographic area where unique resource conditions, goals, concerns, or opportunities require specific and separate management planning.
Navajo Nation
means all offices/entities/programs under the direct jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation Government.
Navajo Partitioned Lands (NPL)
means that portion of the Former Joint Use Area awarded to the Navajo Nation under the Judgment of Partition issued April 18, 1979, by the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, and now a separate administrative entity within the Navajo Indian Reservation.
Non-Concurrence
means the official written denial of approval by the Navajo Nation of a policy, action, decision, or finding submitted for consideration by BIA.
Range management plan
is a statement of management objectives for grazing, farming, or other agriculture management including contract stipulations defining required uses, operations, and improvements.
Range Unit
means a tract of land designated as a separate management subdivision for the administration of grazing.
Resident
means a person who lives on the Navajo Partitioned Lands.
Resources Committee
means the oversight committee for the Division of Natural Resources within the Navajo Nation Government. The Resources Committee of the Navajo Nation Council to whom authority is delegated to exercise the powers of the Navajo Nation with regards to the range development and grazing management of the Navajo Partitioned Lands.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her designated representative.
Settlement Act
means the Navajo Hopi Settlement Act of December 22, 1974 (88 Stat. 1712, 25 U.S.C. 64d
et seq.,
as amended).
Sheep Unit
means an adult ewe with un-weaned lamb. It is also the basic unit in which forage allocations are expressed.
Special land use
means all land usage for purposes other than for grazing withdrawn in accordance with Navajo Nation laws, Federal laws, and BIA policies and procedures, such as but not limited to: Housing permits, farm leases, governmental facilities, rights-of-way, schools, parks, business leases, etc.
Stocking rate
means the maximum number of sheep units, or animal units authorized to graze on a particular pasture, management unit, or range unit during a specified period of time.
Trespass
means any unauthorized occupancy, grazing, use of, or action on the Navajo Partitioned Lands.
§ 161.2
What are the Secretary's authorities under this part?
(a) Under Section 640d-9(e) of the Settlement Act, lands partitioned under the Settlement Act are subject to the jurisdiction of the tribe to whom partitioned. The laws of the tribe apply to the partitioned lands as in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Effective October 6, 1980:
(i) All conservation practices on the Navajo Partitioned Lands, including control and range restoration activities, must be coordinated and executed with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation; and
(ii) All grazing and range restoration matters on the Navajo Reservation
lands must be administered by BIA, under applicable laws and regulations.
(2) Effective April 18, 1981, the Navajo Nation has jurisdiction and authority over any lands partitioned to it and over all persons on these lands. This jurisdiction and authority apply:
(i) To the same extent as is applicable to those other portions of the Navajo reservation; and
(ii) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, except where there is a conflict with the laws and regulations referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) Under the Agricultural Act, the Secretary is authorized to:
(1) Carry out the trust responsibility of the United States and promote Indian tribal self-determination by providing for management of Indian agricultural lands and renewable resources consistent with tribal goals and priorities for conservation, multiple use, and sustained yield;
(2) Take part in managing Indian agricultural lands, with the participation of the land's beneficial owners, in a manner consistent with the Secretary's trust responsibility and with the objectives of the beneficial owners;
(3) Provide for the development and management of Indian agricultural lands; and
(4) Improve the expertise and technical abilities of Indian tribes and their members by increasing the educational and training opportunities available to Indian people and communities in the practical, technical, and professional aspects of agricultural and land management.
§ 161.3
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to describe the goals and objectives of grazing management on the Navajo Partitioned Lands:
(a) To respect and recognize the importance that livestock and land have in sustaining Navajo tradition and culture.
(b) Provide resources to rehabilitate range resources in the preservation of forage, soil, and water on the Navajo Partitioned Lands;
(c) Monitor the recovery of those resources where they have deteriorated;
(d) Protect, conserve, utilize, and maintain the highest productive potential on the Navajo Partitioned Lands through the application of sound conservation practices and techniques. These practices and techniques will be applied to planning, development, inventorying, classification, and management of agricultural resources;
(e) Increase production and expand the diversity and availability of agricultural products for subsistence, income, and employment of Indians, through the development of agricultural resources on the Navajo Partitioned Lands;
(f) Manage agricultural resources consistent with integrated resource management plans in order to protect and maintain other values such as wildlife, fisheries, cultural resources, recreation and to regulate water runoff and minimize soil erosion;
(g) Enable the Navajo Nation to maximize the potential benefits available to its members from their lands by providing technical assistance, training, and education in conservation practices, management and economics of agribusiness, sources and use of credit and marketing of agricultural products, and other applicable subject areas;
(h) Develop the Navajo Partitioned Lands to promote self-sustaining communities; and
(i) Assist the Navajo Nation with permitting the Navajo Partitioned Lands, consistent with prudent management and conservation practices, and community goals as expressed in the tribal management plans and appropriate tribal ordinances.
§ 161.4
To what lands does this part apply?
The grazing regulations in this part apply to the Navajo Partitioned Lands within the boundaries of the Navajo Indian Reservation held in trust by the United States for the Navajo Nation. Contiguous areas outside of the Navajo Partitioned Lands may be included under this part for management purposes by BIA in consultation with the affected permittees and other affected land users, and with the concurrence of the Resources Committee. Other affected land users include those holding
approved assignments, permits, leases, and rights of way for activities such as: home sites, farm plots, roads, utilities, businesses, and schools.
§ 161.5
Can BIA waive the application of this part?
Yes. If a provision of this part conflicts with the objectives of the agricultural resource management plan provided for in § 161.200, or with a tribal law, BIA may waive the application of this part unless the waiver would either:
(a) Constitute a violation of a federal statute or judicial decision; or
(b) Conflict with BIA's general trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 161.6
Are there any other restrictions on information given to BIA?
Information that the BIA collects in connection with permits for NPL in sections 161.102, 161.206, 161.301, 161.302, 161.304, 161.402, 161.500, 161.502, 161.604, 161.606, 161.703, 161.704, 161.708, 161.717, 161.800, 161.801, and 161.802 have been reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget. The OMB Control Number assigned is 1076-0162. Please note that a federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Tribal Policies and Laws Pertaining to Permits
§ 161.100
Do tribal laws apply to grazing permits?
Navajo Nation laws generally apply to land under the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation, except to the extent that those Navajo Nation laws are inconsistent with this part or other applicable federal law. This part may be superseded or modified by Navajo Nation laws with Secretarial approval, however, so long as:
(a) The Navajo Nation laws are consistent with the enacting Navajo Nation's governing documents;
(b) The Navajo Nation has notified BIA of the superseding or modifying effect of the Navajo Nation laws;
(c) The superseding or modifying of the regulation would not violate a federal statute or judicial decision, or conflict with the Secretary's general trust responsibility under federal law; and
(d) The superseding or modifying of the regulation applies only to Navajo Partitioned Lands.
§ 161.101
How will tribal laws be enforced on the Navajo Partitioned Lands?
(a) Unless prohibited by federal law, BIA will recognize and comply with tribal laws regulating activities on the Navajo Partitioned Lands, including tribal laws relating to land use, environmental protection, and historic or cultural preservation.
(b) While the Navajo Nation is primarily responsible for enforcing tribal laws pertaining to the Navajo Partitioned Lands, BIA will:
(1) Assist in the enforcement of Navajo Nation laws;
(2) Provide notice of Navajo Nation laws to persons or entities undertaking activities on the Navajo Partitioned Lands; and
(3) Require appropriate federal officials to appear in tribal forums when requested by the tribe, so long as the appearance would not:
(i) Be inconsistent with the restrictions on employee testimony set forth at 43 CFR part 2, subpart E;
(ii) Constitute a waiver of the sovereign immunity of the United States; or
(iii) Authorize or result in a review of (BIA) actions by the tribal court.
(c) Where the provisions in this subpart are inconsistent with a Navajo Nation law, but the provisions cannot be superseded or modified by the Navajo Nation laws under § 161.5, BIA may waive the provisions under part 1 of 25 CFR, so long as the new waiver does not violate a federal statute or judicial decision or conflict with the Secretary's trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 161.102
What notifications are required that tribal laws apply to grazing permits on the Navajo Partitioned Lands?
(a) The Navajo Nation must provide BIA with an official copy of any tribal law or tribal policy that relates to this part. The Navajo Nation must notify
BIA of the content and effective dates of tribal laws.
(b) BIA will then notify affected permittees of the effect of the Navajo Nation law on their grazing permits. BIA will:
(1) Provide individual written notice; or
(2) Post public notice. This notice will be posted at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, announced on local radio station, and/or published in the local newspaper nearest to the permitted Navajo Partitioned Lands where activities are occurring.

# Subpart C—General Provisions
§ 161.200
Is an Indian agricultural resource management plan required?
(a) Yes, Navajo Partitioned Lands must be managed in accordance with the goals and objectives in the agricultural resource management plan developed by the Navajo Nation, or by BIA in close consultation with the Navajo Nation, under the Agricultural Act.
(b) The 10-year agricultural resource management and monitoring plan must be developed through public meetings and completed within 3 years of the initiation of the planning activity. The plan must be based on the public meeting records and existing survey documents, reports, and other research from Federal agencies, tribal community colleges, and land grant universities. When completed, the plan must:
(1) Determine available agricultural resources;
(2) Identify specific tribal agricultural resource goals and objectives;
(3) Establish management objectives for the resources;
(4) Define critical values of the tribe and its members and provide identified resource management objectives; and
(5) Identify actions to be taken to reach established objectives.
(c) Where the provisions in this subpart are inconsistent with the Navajo Nation's agricultural resource management plan, the Secretary may waive the provisions under part 1 of this title, so long as the waiver does not violate a federal statute or judicial decision or conflict with the Secretary's trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 161.201
Is environmental compliance required?
Actions taken by BIA under this part must comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.,
applicable provisions of the Council on Environmental Quality, 40 CFR part 1500, and applicable tribal laws and provisions of the Navajo Nation Environmental Policy Act CAP-47-95, where the tribal laws and provisions do not violate a federal or judicial decision or conflict with the Secretary's trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 161.202
How are range units established?
(a) BIA, with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation, will establish range units on the Navajo Partitioned Lands to provide unified areas for which range management plans can be developed to improve and maintain soil and forage resources. Physical land features, watersheds, drainage patterns, vegetation, soil, resident concentration, problem areas, historical land use patterns, chapter boundaries, special land uses and comprehensive land use planning will be considered in the determination of range unit boundaries.
(b) BIA may modify range unit boundaries with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation. This may include small and/or isolated portions of Navajo Partitioned Lands contiguous to Navajo tribal lands in order to develop more efficient land management.
§ 161.203
Are range management plans required?
Yes. BIA will:
(a) Consult with the Navajo Nation in planning conservation practices, including grazing control and range restoration activities for the Navajo Partitioned Lands.
(b) Develop range management plans with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation.
(c) Approve the range management plans, after concurrence with the Navajo Nation, and the implementation of the plan may begin immediately. The plan will address, but is not limited to, the following issues:
(1) Goals for improving vegetative productivity and diversity;
(2) Stocking rates;
(3) Grazing schedules;
(4) Wildlife management;
(5) Needs assessment for range and livestock improvements;
(6) Schedule for operation and maintenance of existing range improvements and development for cooperative funded projects;
(7) Cooperation in the implementation of range studies;
(8) Control of livestock diseases and parasites;
(9) Fencing or other structures necessary to implement any of the other provisions in the range management plan;
(10) Special land uses; and
(11) Water development and management.
§ 161.204
How are carrying capacities and stocking rates established?
(a) BIA, with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation, will prescribe, review and adjust the carrying capacity of each range unit by determining the number of livestock, and/or wildlife, that can be grazed on the Navajo Partitioned Lands without inducing damage to vegetation or related resources on each range unit and the season or seasons of use to achieve the objectives of the agricultural resource management plan and range unit management plan.
(b) BIA, with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation, will establish the stocking rate of each range or management unit. The stocking rate will be based on forage production, range utilization, the application of land management practices, and range improvements in place to achieve uniformity of grazing under sustained yield management principles on each range or management unit.
(c) BIA will review the carrying capacity of the grazing units on a continuing basis and, in consultation with the Grazing Committee and affected permittees, adjust the stocking rate for each range or management unit as conditions warrant.
(d) Any adjustments in stocking rates will be applied equally to each permittee within the management unit requiring adjustment.
§ 161.205
How are range improvements treated?
(a) Improvements placed on the Navajo Partitioned Lands will be considered affixed to the land unless specifically exempted in the permit. No improvement may be constructed or removed from Navajo Partitioned Lands without the written consent of BIA and the Navajo Nation.
(b) Before undertaking an improvement, BIA, Navajo Nation and permittee will negotiate who will complete and maintain improvements. The improvement agreement will be reflected in the permit.
§ 161.206
What must a permittee do to protect livestock from exposure to disease?
In accordance with applicable law, permittees must:
(a) Vaccinate livestock;
(b) Treat all livestock exposed to or infected with contagious or infectious diseases; and
(c) Restrict the movement of exposed or infected livestock.
§ 161.207
What livestock are authorized to graze?
The following livestock are authorized to graze on the Navajo Partitioned Lands: horses, cattle, sheep, goats, mules, burros, donkeys, and llamas.

# Subpart D—Permit Requirements
§ 161.300
When is a permit needed to authorize grazing use?
Unless otherwise provided for in this part, any person or legal entity, including an independent legal entity owned and operated by the Navajo Nation, must obtain a permit under this part before using Navajo Partitioned Land for grazing purposes.
§ 161.301
What will a grazing permit contain?
(a) All grazing permits will contain the following provisions:
(1) Name of permit holder;
(2) Range management plan requirements;
(3) Applicable stocking rate;
(4) Range unit number and description of the permitted area;
(5) Animal identification requirements (
i.e.
, brand, microchip, freeze brand, earmark, tattoo, etc.);
(6) Term of permit (including beginning and ending dates of the term allowed, as well as an option to renew, or extend);
(7) A provision stating that the permittee agrees that he or she will not use, cause, or allow to be used any part of the permitted area for any unlawful conduct or purpose;
(8) A provision stating that the permit authorizes no other privilege than grazing use;
(9) A provision stating that no person is allowed to hold a grazing permit in more than one range unit of the Navajo Partitioned Lands, unless the customary use area extends beyond the range unit boundary;
(10) A provision reserving a right of entry by BIA and the Navajo Nation for range survey, inventory and inspection or compliance purposes;
(11) A provision prohibiting the creation of a nuisance, any illegal activity, and negligent use or waste of resources;
(12) A provision stating how trespass proceeds are to be distributed;
(13) A provision stating whether mediation will be used in the event of a permit violation; and
(14) A provision stating that the permit cannot be subdivided once it has been issued.
(b) Grazing permits will contain any other provision that in the discretion of BIA with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation is necessary to protect the land and/or resources.
(c) Grazing permits containing any special land use authorized under § 161.503 of this part must be included on the permit.
§ 161.302
What restrictions are placed on grazing permits?
Only a grazing permit issued under this part authorizes the grazing of livestock within the Navajo Partitioned Lands. Grazing permits are subject to the following restrictions:
(a) Grazing permits should not be issued for less than 2 animal units (10 sheep units) or exceed 70 animal units (350 sheep units). However, all grazing permits issued before the adoption of this regulation will be honored and reissued with an adjusted stocking rate if the permittee meets the eligibility and priority criteria found in § 161.400 of this part, and only if the carrying capacity and stocking rate as determined under §§ 161.204 and 161.403 allows.
(b) A grazing permit will be issued in the name of one individual.
(c) Only two horses will be permitted on a grazing permit.
(d) Grazing permits may contain additional conditions authorized by Federal law or Navajo Nation law.
(e) A state/tribal brand only identifies the owner of the livestock, but does not authorize the grazing of any livestock within the Navajo Partitioned Lands.
(f) A permit cannot be subdivided once it has been issued.
§ 161.303
How long is a permit valid?
After its initial issuance, each grazing permit is valid for one year beginning on the following January 1. All permits will be automatically renewed annually if the permittee is in compliance with all applicable laws including tallies and permit requirements.
§ 161.304
Must a permit be recorded?
A permit must be recorded by BIA following approval under this subpart.
§ 161.305
When is a decision by BIA regarding a permit effective?
BIA approval of a permit will be effective immediately upon signature, notwithstanding any appeal, which may be filed under part 2 of this title. Copies of the approved permit will be provided to the permittee and made available to the Navajo Nation upon request.
§ 161.306
When are permits effective?
Unless otherwise provided in the permit, a permit will be effective on the date on which BIA approves the permit.
§ 161.307
When may a permittee commence grazing on Navajo Partitioned Land?
The permittee may graze on Navajo Partitioned Land on the date specified in the permit as the beginning date of
the term, but not before BIA approves the permit.
§ 161.308
Must a permittee comply with standards of conduct if granted a permit?
Yes. Permittees are expected to:
(a) Conduct grazing operations in accordance with the principles of sustained yield management, agricultural resource management planning, sound conservation practices, and other community goals as expressed in Navajo Nation laws, agricultural resource management plans, and similar sources.
(b) Comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, provisions, and other legal requirements. Permittee must also pay all applicable penalties that may be assessed for non-compliance.
(c) Fulfill all financial permit obligations owed to the Navajo Nation and the United States.
(d) Conduct only those activities authorized by the permit.

# Subpart E—Reissuance of Grazing Permits
§ 161.400
What are the criteria for reissuing grazing permits?
(a) The Navajo Nation may prescribe eligibility requirements for grazing allocations within 180 days following the effective date of this part. BIA will prescribe the eligibility requirements after expiration of the 180-day period if the Navajo Nation does not prescribe eligibility requirements, or if satisfactory action is not taken by the Navajo Nation.
(b) With the written concurrence of the Navajo Nation, BIA will prescribe the following eligibility requirements, where only those applicants who meet the following criteria are eligible to receive permits to graze livestock:
(1) Those who had grazing permits on Navajo Partitioned Lands under 25 CFR part 167 (formerly part 152), and whose permits were canceled on October 14, 1973;
(2) Those who are listed in the 1974 and 1975 Former Joint Use Area enumeration;
(3) Those who are current residents on Navajo Partitioned Lands; and
(4) Those who have a customary use area on Navajo Partitioned Lands.
(c) Permits re-issued to applicants under this section may be granted by BIA based on the following priority criteria:
(1) The first priority will go to individuals currently the age of 65 or older; and
(2) The second priority will go to individuals under the age of 65.
(d) Upon the recommendation of the NPL District Grazing Committee and Resources Committee, BIA or Navajo Nation will have authority to waive one of the eligibility or priority criteria.
§ 161.401
Will new permits be granted after the initial reissuance of permits?
(a) Following the initial reissuance of permits under § 161.400, the Navajo Nation can grant new permits, subject to BIA approval, if:
(1) Additional permits become available; and
(2) The carrying capacity and stocking rates as determined under §§ 161.204 and 161.403 allow.
(b) The Navajo Nation must inform BIA if it grants any permits under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 161.402
What are the procedures for reissuing permits?
BIA, with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation, will reissue grazing permits only to individuals that meet the eligibility requirements in § 161.400. Responsibilities for reissuance of grazing permits are as follows:
(a) BIA will develop a complete list consisting of all former permittees whose permits were cancelled and the number of animal units previously authorized in prior grazing permits. This list will be provided to the Grazing Committee and Resources Committee for their review. BIA will also provide the Grazing Committee and Resources Committee with the current carrying capacity and stocking rate for each range unit within the Navajo Partitioned Lands, as determined under § 161.204.
(b) Within 90 days of receipt, the Grazing Committee will review the list developed under § 161.402(a), and make
recommendations to the Resources Committee for the granting of grazing permits according to the eligibility and priority criteria in § 161.400.
(c) If the Grazing Committee fails to make its recommendation to the Resources Committee within 90 days after receiving the list of potential permittees, BIA will submit its recommendations to the Resources Committee.
(d) The Resources Committee will review and concur with the list of proposed permit grantees, and then forward a final list to BIA for the reissuance of grazing permits. If the Resources Committee does not concur, the procedures outlined in § 161.800 will govern.
(e) The final determination list of eligible permittees will be published. Permits will not be issued sooner than 90 days following publication of the final list.
§ 161.403
How are grazing permits allocated within each range unit?
(a) Initial allocation of the number of animal units authorized in each grazing permit will be determined by considering the number of animal units previously authorized in prior grazing permits and the current authorized stocking rate on a given range unit.
(b) Grazing permit allocations may vary from range unit to range unit depending on the stocking rate of each unit, the range management plan, and the number of eligible grazing permittees in the unit.

# Subpart F—Modifying A Permit
§ 161.500
May permits be transferred, assigned or modified?
(a) Grazing permits may be transferred, assigned, or modified only as provided in this section. Permits may only be transferred or assigned as a single permit under Navajo Nation procedures and with the approval of BIA. Permittees must reside within the same range unit as the original permittee.
(b) Permits may be transferred, assigned, or modified with the written consent of the permittee, District Grazing Committee and/or Resources Committee and approved by BIA.
(c) BIA must record each transfer, assignment, or modification that it approves under a permit.
§ 161.501
When will a permit modification be effective?
BIA approval of a transfer, assignment, or modification under a permit will be effective immediately, notwithstanding any appeal, which may be filed under part 2 of this title. Copies of approved documents will be provided to the permittee and made available to the Navajo Nation upon request.
§ 161.502
Will a special land use require permit modification?
Yes. When the Navajo Nation and BIA approve a special land use, the grazing permit will be modified to reflect the change in available forage. If a special land use is inconsistent with grazing activities authorized in the permit, the special land use area will be withdrawn from the permit, and grazing cannot take place on that part of the range unit.

# Subpart G—Permit Violations
§ 161.600
What permit violations are addressed by this subpart?
This subpart addresses violations of permit provisions other than trespass. Trespass is addressed under subpart H.
§ 161.601
How will BIA monitor permit compliance?
Unless the permit provides otherwise, BIA and/or Navajo Nation may enter the range unit at any reasonable time, without prior notice, to protect the interests of the Navajo Nation and ensure that the permittee is in compliance with the operating requirements of the permit.
§ 161.602
Will my permit be canceled for non-use?
(a) If a grazing permit is not used by the permittee for a 2-year period, BIA may cancel the permit upon the recommendation of the Grazing Committee and with the concurrence of the Resources Committee under § 161.606(c). Non-use consists of, but is not limited to, absence of livestock on the range unit, and/or abandonment of a permittee's grazing permit.
(b) Unused grazing permits or portions of grazing permits that are set aside for range recovery will not be cancelled for non-use.
§ 161.603
Can mediation be used in the event of a permit violation or dispute?
A permit may provide for permit disputes or violations to be resolved with the District Grazing Committee through mediation.
(a) The District Grazing Committee will conduct the mediation before the Navajo Nation's appropriate hearing body, before BIA invokes any cancellation remedies.
(b) Conducting the mediation may substitute for permit cancellation. However, BIA retains the authority to cancel the permit under § 161.606.
(c) The Navajo Nation's appropriate hearing body decision will be final, unless it is appealed to the Navajo Nation Supreme Court on a question of law. BIA will defer to any ongoing proceedings, as appropriate, in deciding whether to exercise any of the remedies available to BIA under § 161.606.
§ 161.604
What happens if a permit violation occurs?
(a) If the Resources Committee notifies BIA that a specific permit violation has occurred, BIA will initiate an appropriate investigation within 5 business days of that notification.
(b) Unless otherwise provided under tribal law, when BIA has reason to believe that a permit violation has occurred, BIA or the authorized tribal representative will provide written notice to the permittee within 5 business days.
§ 161.605
What will a written notice of a permit violation contain?
The written notice of a permit violation will provide the permittee with 10 days from the receipt of the written notice to:
(a) Cure the permit violation and notify BIA that the violation is cured;
(b) Explain why BIA should not cancel the permit;
(c) Request in writing additional time to complete corrective actions. If additional time is granted, BIA may require that certain actions be taken immediately; or
(d) Request mediation under § 161.603.
§ 161.606
What will BIA do if the permittee doesn't cure a violation on time?
(a) If the permittee does not cure a violation within the required time period, or if the violation is not referred to District Grazing Committee for mediation, BIA will consult with the Navajo Nation, as appropriate, and determine whether:
(1) The permit may be canceled by BIA under paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 161.607 through 161.608;
(2) BIA may invoke any other remedies available to BIA under the permit;
(3) The Navajo Nation may invoke any remedies available to them under the permit; or
(4) The permittee may be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) If BIA grants a permittee a time extension to cure a violation, the permittee must proceed diligently to complete the necessary corrective actions within a reasonable or specified time from the date on which the extension is granted.
(c) If BIA cancels the permit, BIA will send the permittee and the District Grazing Committee a written notice of cancellation within 5 business days of the decision. BIA will also provide actual or constructive notice of the cancellation to the Navajo Nation, as appropriate. The written notice of cancellation will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) Notify the permittee of the amount of any unpaid fees and other financial obligations due under the permit;
(3) Notify the permittee of his or her right to appeal under 25 CFR part 2 of this title, as modified by § 161.607, including the amount of any appeal bond that must be posted with an appeal of the cancellation decision; and
(4) Order the permittee to cease grazing livestock on the next anniversary date of the grazing permit or 180 days
following the receipt of the written notice of cancellation, whichever is sooner.
§ 161.607
What appeal bond provisions apply to permit cancellation decisions?
(a) The appeal bond provisions in § 2.5 of part 2 of this title will not apply to appeals from permit cancellation decision. Instead, when BIA decides to cancel a permit, BIA may require the permittee to post an appeal bond with an appeal of the cancellation decision. The requirement to post an appeal bond will apply in addition to all of the other requirements in part 2 of this title.
(b) An appeal bond should be set in an amount necessary to protect the Navajo Nation against financial losses that will likely result from the delay caused by an appeal. Appeal bond requirements will not be separately appealable, but may be contested during the appeal of the permit cancellation decision.
§ 161.608
When will a permit cancellation be effective?
A cancellation decision involving a permit will not be effective for 30 days after the permittee receives a written notice of cancellation from BIA. The cancellation decision will remain ineffective if the permittee files an appeal under § 161.607 and part 2 of this title, unless the decision is made immediately effective under part 2. While a cancellation decision is ineffective, the permittee must continue to comply with the other terms of the permit. If an appeal is not filed in accordance with § 161.607 and part 2 of this title, the cancellation decision will be effective on the 31st day after the permittee receives the written notice of cancellation from BIA.
§ 161.609
Can BIA take emergency action if the rangeland is threatened?
Yes, if a permittee or any other party causes or threatens to cause immediate, significant and irreparable harm to the Navajo Nation land during the term of a permit, BIA will take appropriate emergency action. Emergency action may include trespass proceedings under subpart H, or judicial action seeking immediate cessation of the activity resulting in or threatening harm. Reasonable efforts will be made to notify the Navajo Nation, either before or after the emergency action is taken.
§ 161.610
What will BIA do if livestock is not removed when a permit expires or is cancelled?
If the livestock is not removed after the expiration or cancellation of a permit, BIA will treat the unauthorized use as a trespass. BIA may remove the livestock on behalf of the Navajo Nation, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law, including the assessment of civil penalties and costs under subpart H.

# Subpart H—Trespass
§ 161.700
What is trespass?
Under this part, trespass is any unauthorized use of, or action on, Navajo partitioned grazing lands.
§ 161.701
What is BIA's trespass policy?
BIA will:
(a) Investigate accidental, willful, and/or incidental trespass on Navajo Partitioned Lands;
(b) Respond to alleged trespass in a prompt, efficient manner;
(c) Assess trespass penalties for the value of products used or removed, cost of damage to the Navajo Partitioned Lands, and enforcement costs incurred as a consequence of the trespass; and
(d) Ensure, to the extent possible, that damage to Navajo Partitioned Lands resulting from trespass is rehabilitated and stabilized at the expense of the trespasser.
§ 161.702
Who will enforce this subpart?
(a) BIA enforces the provisions of this subpart. If the Navajo Nation adopts the provisions of this subpart, the Navajo Nation will have concurrent jurisdiction to enforce this subpart. Additionally, if the Navajo Nation so requests, BIA will defer to tribal prosecution of trespass on Navajo Partitioned Lands.
(b) Nothing in this subpart will be construed to diminish the sovereign
authority of the Navajo Nation with respect to trespass.

# Notification
§ 161.703
How are trespassers notified of a trespass determination?
(a) Unless otherwise provided under tribal law, when BIA has reason to believe that a trespass on Navajo Partitioned Lands has occurred, BIA or the authorized tribal representative will provide written notice within 5 business days to:
(1) The alleged trespasser;
(2) The possessor of trespass property; and
(3) Any known lien holder.
(b) The written notice under paragraph (a) of this section will include the following:
(1) The basis for the trespass determination;
(2) A legal description of where the trespass occurred;
(3) A verification of ownership of unauthorized property (
e.g.
, brands in the State Brand Book for cases of livestock trespass, if applicable);
(4) Corrective actions that must be taken;
(5) Time frames for taking the corrective actions;
(6) Potential consequences and penalties for failure to take corrective action; and
(7) A statement that unauthorized livestock or other property may not be removed or disposed of unless authorized by BIA under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(c) If BIA determines that the alleged trespasser or possessor of trespass property is unknown or refuses delivery of the written notice, a public trespass notice will be posted at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, and published in the local newspaper nearest to the Indian agricultural lands where the trespass is occurring.
(d) Trespass notices under this subpart are not subject to appeal under part 2 of this title.
§ 161.704
What can a permittee do if they receive a trespass notice?
The trespasser will within the time frame specified in the notice:
(a) Comply with the ordered corrective actions; or
(b) Contact BIA in writing to explain why the trespass notice is in error. The trespasser may contact BIA by telephone but any explanation of trespass must be provided in writing. If BIA determines that a trespass notice was issued in error, the notice will be withdrawn.
§ 161.705
How long will a written trespass notice remain in effect?
A written trespass notice will remain in effect for the same action identified in that written notice for a period of one year from the date of receipt of the written notice by the trespasser.

# Actions
§ 161.706
What actions does BIA take against trespassers?
If the trespasser fails to take the corrective action as specified, BIA may take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate:
(a) Seize, impound, sell or dispose of unauthorized livestock or other property involved in the trespass. BIA may keep the property seized for use as evidence.
(b) Assess penalties, damages, and costs under § 161.712.
§ 161.707
When will BIA impound unauthorized livestock or other property?
BIA will impound unauthorized livestock or other property under the following conditions:
(a) Where there is imminent danger of severe injury to growing or harvestable crop or destruction of the range forage.
(b) When the known owner or the owner's representative of the unauthorized livestock or other property refuses to accept delivery of a written notice of trespass and the unauthorized livestock or other property are not removed within the period prescribed in the written notice.
(c) Any time after 5 days of providing notice of impoundment if the trespasser failed to correct the trespass.
§ 161.708
How are trespassers notified of impoundments?
(a) If the trespass is not corrected in the time specified in the initial trespass notice, BIA will send written notice of its intent to impound unauthorized livestock or other property to:
(1) The unauthorized livestock or property owner or representative; and
(2) Any known lien holder of the unauthorized livestock or other property.
(b) If BIA determines that the owner of the unauthorized livestock or other property or the owner's representative is unknown or refuses delivery of the written notice, a public notice of intent to impound will be posted at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, and published in the local newspaper nearest to the Indian agricultural lands where the trespass is occurring.
(c) After BIA has given notice as described in § 161.707, unauthorized livestock or other property will be impounded without any further notice.
§ 161.709
What happens after unauthorized livestock or other property are impounded?
Following the impoundment of unauthorized livestock or other property, BIA will provide notice that the impounded property will be sold as follows:
(a) BIA will provide written notice of the sale to the owner, the owner's representative, and any known lien holder. The written notice must include the procedure by which the impounded property may be redeemed before the sale.
(b) BIA will provide public notice of sale of impounded property by posting at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, and publishing in the local newspaper nearest to the Indian agricultural lands where the trespass is occurring. The public notice will include a description of the impounded property, and the date, time, and place of the public sale. The sale date must be at least 5 days after the publication and posting of notice.
§ 161.710
How can impounded livestock or other property be redeemed?
Impounded livestock or other property may be redeemed by submitting proof of ownership and paying all penalties, damages, and costs under § 161.712 and completing all corrective actions identified by BIA under § 161.704.
§ 161.711
How will BIA sell impounded livestock or other property?
(a) Unless the owner or known lien holder of the impounded livestock or other property redeems the property before the time set by the sale, by submitting proof of ownership and settling all obligations under §§ 161.704 and 161.712, the property will be sold by public sale to the highest bidder.
(b) If a satisfactory bid is not received, the livestock or property may be re-offered for sale, returned to the owner, condemned and destroyed, or otherwise disposed of.
(c) BIA will give the purchaser a bill of sale or other written receipt evidencing the sale.

# Penalties, Damages, and Costs
§ 161.712
What are the penalties, damages, and costs payable by trespassers?
Trespassers on Navajo Partitioned Lands must pay the following penalties and costs:
(a) Collection of the value of the products illegally used or removed plus a penalty of double their values;
(b) Costs associated with any damage to Navajo Partitioned Lands and/or property;
(c) The costs associated with enforcement of the provisions, including field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation assistance and reports, witness expenses, demand letters, court costs, and attorney fees;
(d) Expenses incurred in gathering, impounding, caring for, and disposal of livestock in cases which necessitate impoundment under § 161.707; and
(e) All other penalties authorized by law.
§ 161.713
How will BIA determine the amount of damages to Navajo Partitioned Lands?
(a) BIA will determine the damages by considering the costs of rehabilitation and re-vegetation, loss of future revenue, loss of profits, loss of productivity, loss of market value, damage to other resources, and other factors.
(b) BIA will determine the value of forage or crops consumed or destroyed based upon the average rate received per month for comparable property or grazing privileges, or the estimated commercial value or replacement costs of the products or property.
(c) BIA will determine the value of the products or property illegally used or removed based upon a valuation of similar products or property.
§ 161.714
How will BIA determine the costs associated with enforcement of the trespass?
Costs of enforcement may include detection and all actions taken by us through prosecution and collection of damages. This includes field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation assistance and report preparation, witness expenses, demand letters, court costs, attorney fees, and other costs.
§ 161.715
What will BIA do if a trespasser fails to pay penalties, damages and costs?
This section applies if a trespasser fails to pay the assessed penalties, damages, and costs as directed. Unless otherwise provided by applicable Navajo Nation law, BIA will:
(a) Refuse to issue the permittee a permit for any use of Navajo Partitioned Lands; and
(b) Forward the case for appropriate legal action.
§ 161.716
How are the proceeds from trespass distributed?
Unless otherwise provided by Navajo Nation law:
(a) BIA will treat any amounts recovered under § 161.712 as proceeds from the sale of agricultural property from the Navajo Partitioned Lands upon which the trespass occurred.
(b) Proceeds recovered under § 161.712 may be distributed to:
(1) Repair damages of the Navajo Partitioned Lands and property; or
(2) Reimburse the affected parties, including the permittee for loss due to the trespass, as negotiated and provided in the permit.
(c) Reimburse for costs associated with the enforcement.
(d) If any money is left over after the distribution of the proceeds described in paragraph (b) of this section, BIA will return it to the trespasser or, where the owner of the impounded property cannot be identified within 180 days, the net proceeds of the sale will be deposited into the appropriate Navajo Nation account or transferred to the Navajo Nation under applicable tribal law.
§ 161.717
What happens if BIA does not collect enough money to satisfy the penalty?
BIA will send written notice to the trespasser demanding immediate settlement and advising the trespasser that unless settlement is received within 5 business days from the date of receipt, BIA will forward the case for appropriate legal action. BIA may send a copy of the notice to the Navajo Nation, permittee, and any known lien holders.

# Subpart I—Concurrence/Appeals/Amendments
§ 161.800
How does the Navajo Nation provide concurrence to BIA?
(a) Actions taken by BIA under this part require concurrence of the Navajo Nation under section 640d-9(e)(1)(A) of the Settlement Act.
(b) For any action requiring the concurrence of the Resources Committee, the following procedures will apply:
(1) Unless a longer time is specified in a particular section, or unless BIA grants an extension of time, the Resources Committee will have 45 days to review and concur with the proposed action;
(2) If the Resources Committee concurs in writing with all or part of BIA proposed action, the action or a portion of it may be immediately implemented;
(3) If the Resources Committee does not concur with all or part of the proposed action within the time prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, BIA will submit to the Resources Committee a written declaration of non-concurrence. BIA will then notify the Resources Committee in writing of a formal hearing to be held not sooner than 30 days from the date of the non-concurrence declaration;
(4) The formal hearing on non-concurrence will permit the submission of written evidence and argument concerning the proposal. BIA will take minutes of the hearing. Following the hearing, BIA may amend, alter, or otherwise change the proposed action. If, following a hearing, BIA alters or amends portions of the proposed plan of action, BIA will submit the altered or amended portions of the plan to the Resources Committee for its concurrence; and
(5) If the Resources Committee fails or refuses to give its concurrence to the proposal, BIA may implement the proposal only after issuing a written order, based upon findings of fact, that the proposed action is necessary to protect the land under the Settlement Act and the Agricultural Act.
§ 161.801
May decisions under this part be appealed?
(a) Appeals of BIA decisions issued under this part may be taken in accordance with procedures in part 2 of 25 CFR.
(b) All appeals of decisions by the Grazing Committee and Resources Committee will be forwarded to the Navajo Nation's Office of Hearings and Appeals.
§ 161.802
How will the Navajo Nation recommend amendments to this part?
The Resources Committee will have final authority on behalf of the Navajo Nation to approve amendments to the Navajo Partitioned Lands grazing provisions, upon the recommendation of the Grazing Committee and the Navajo-Hopi Land Commission, and the concurrence of BIA.
Pt. 162

# PART 162—LEASES AND PERMITS

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Purpose, Definitions, and Scope
Sec.
162.001
What is the purpose of this part?
162.002
How is this part subdivided?
162.003
What key terms do I need to know?
162.004
To what land does this part apply?

# When To Get a Lease
162.005
When do I need a lease to authorize possession of Indian land?
162.006
To what types of land use agreements does this part apply?
162.007
To what permits does this part apply?
162.008
Does this part apply to lease documents I submitted for approval before January 4, 2013?
162.009
Do I need BIA approval of a subleasehold mortgage?

# How To Get a Lease
162.010
How do I obtain a lease?
162.011
How does a prospective lessee identify and contact individual Indian landowners to negotiate a lease?
162.012
What are the consent requirements for a lease?
162.013
Who is authorized to consent to a lease?

# Lease Administration
162.014
What laws apply to leases approved under this part?
162.015
May a lease contain a preference consistent with tribal law for employment of tribal members?
162.016
Will BIA comply with tribal laws in making lease decisions?
162.017
What taxes apply to leases approved under this part?
162.018
May tribes administer this part on BIA's behalf?
162.019
May a lease address access to the leased premises by roads or other infrastructure?
162.020
May a lease combine tracts with different Indian landowners?
162.021
What are BIA's responsibilities in approving leases?
162.022
What are BIA's responsibilities in administering and enforcing leases?
162.023
What if an individual or entity takes possession of or uses Indian land without an approved lease or other proper authorization?
162.024
May BIA take emergency action if Indian land is threatened?
162.025
May decisions under this part be appealed?
162.026
Who can answer questions about leasing?
162.027
What documentation may BIA require in approving, administering, and enforcing leases?
162.028
How may an Indian tribe obtain information about leases on its land?
162.029
How does BIA provide notice to the parties to a lease?

# Subpart B—Agricultural Leases
162.101
What key terms do I need to know for this subpart?
162.105
Can tracts with different Indian landowners be unitized for agricultural leasing purposes?
162.106
What will BIA do if possession is taken without an approved agricultural lease or other proper authorization?
162.107
What are BIA's objectives in granting and approving agricultural leases?
162.108
What are BIA's responsibilities in administering and enforcing agricultural leases?
162.109
What laws, other than these regulations, will apply to agricultural leases granted or approved under this part?
162.110
Can these regulations be administered by tribes, on the Secretary's or on BIA's behalf?
162.111
Who owns the records associated with this subpart?
162.112
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
162.113
May decisions under this subpart be appealed?

# General Provisions
162.200
What types of leases are covered by this subpart?
162.201
Must agricultural land be managed in accordance with a tribe's agricultural resource management plan?
162.202
How will tribal laws be enforced on agricultural land?
162.203
When can the regulations in this subpart be superseded or modified by tribal laws and leasing policies?
162.204
Must notice of applicable tribal laws and leasing policies be provided?
162.205
Can individual Indian landowners exempt their agricultural land from certain tribal leasing policies?

# How To Obtain a Lease
162.206
Can the terms of an agricultural lease be negotiated with the Indian landowners?
162.207
When can the Indian landowners grant an agricultural lease?
162.208
Who can represent the Indian landowners in negotiating or granting an agricultural lease?
162.209
When can BIA grant an agricultural lease on behalf of an Indian landowner?
162.210
When can BIA grant a permit covering agricultural land?
162.211
What type of valuation or evaluation methods will be applied in estimating the fair annual rental of Indian land?
162.212
When will the BIA advertise Indian land for agricultural leases?
162.213
What supporting documents must be provided prior to BIA's grant or approval of an agricultural lease?
162.214
How and when will BIA decide whether to approve an agricultural lease?
162.215
When will an agricultural lease be effective?
162.216
When will a BIA decision to approve an agricultural lease be effective?
162.217
Must an agricultural lease or permit be recorded?

# Lease Requirements
162.218
Is there a standard agricultural lease form?
162.219
Are there any provisions that must be included in an agricultural lease?
162.220
Are there any formal requirements that must be satisfied in the execution of an agricultural lease?
162.221
How should the land be described in an agricultural lease?
162.222
How much rent must be paid under an agricultural lease?
162.223
Must the rent be adjusted under an agricultural lease?
162.224
When are rent payments due under an agricultural lease?
162.225
Will untimely rent payments made under an agricultural lease be subject to interest charges or late payment penalties?
162.226
To whom can rent payments be made under an agricultural lease?
162.227
What form of rent payment can be accepted under an agricultural lease?
162.228
What other types of payments are required under an agricultural lease?
162.229
How long can the term of an agricultural lease run?
162.230
Can an agricultural lease be amended, assigned, sublet, or mortgaged?
162.231
How can the land be used under an agricultural lease?
162.232
Can improvements be made under an agricultural lease?
162.233
Who will own the improvements made under an agricultural lease?
162.234
Must a tenant provide a bond under an agricultural lease?
162.235
What form of bond can be accepted under an agricultural lease?
162.236
How will a cash bond be administered?
162.237
What insurance is required under an agricultural lease?
162.238
What indemnities are required under an agricultural lease?
162.239
How will payment rights and obligations relating to agricultural land be allocated between the Indian landowners and the tenant?
162.240
Can an agricultural lease provide for negotiated remedies in the event of a violation?

# Lease Administration
162.241
Will administrative fees be charged for actions relating to agricultural leases?
162.242
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment to an agricultural lease?
162.243
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment or sublease under an agricultural lease?
162.244
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage under an agricultural lease?
162.245
When will a BIA decision to approve an amendment, assignment, sublease, or mortgage under an agricultural lease be effective?
162.246
Must an amendment, assignment, sublease, or mortgage approved under an agricultural lease be recorded?

# Lease Enforcement
162.247
Will BIA notify a tenant when a rent payment is due under an agricultural lease?
162.248
What will BIA do if rent payments are not made in the time and manner required by an agricultural lease?
162.249
Will any special fees be assessed on delinquent rent payments due under an agricultural lease?
162.250
How will BIA determine whether the activities of a tenant under an agricultural lease are in compliance with the terms of the lease?
162.251
What will BIA do in the event of a violation under an agricultural lease?
162.252
What will BIA do if a violation of an agricultural lease is not cured within the requisite time period?
162.253
Will BIA's regulations concerning appeal bonds apply to cancellation decisions involving agricultural leases?
162.254
When will a cancellation of an agricultural lease be effective?
162.255
Can BIA take emergency action if the leased premises are threatened with immediate and significant harm?
162.256
What will BIA do if a tenant holds over after the expiration or cancellation of an agricultural lease?

# Subpart C—Residential Leases

# Residential Leasing General Provisions
162.301
What types of leases does this subpart cover?
162.302
Is there a model residential lease form?
162.303
Who needs a lease for housing for public purposes?

# Lease Requirements
162.311
How long may the term of a residential lease run?
162.312
What must the lease include if it contains an option to renew?
162.313
Are there mandatory provisions that a residential lease must contain?
162.314
May permanent improvements be made under a residential lease?
162.315
How must a residential lease address ownership of permanent improvements?
162.316
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a residential lease?
162.317
How must a residential lease describe the land?

# Rental Requirements
162.320
How much rent must be paid under a residential lease of tribal land?
162.321
How much rent must be paid under a residential lease of individually owned Indian land?
162.322
How will BIA determine fair market rental for a residential lease?
162.323
When are rental payments due under a residential lease?
162.324
Must a residential lease specify who receives rental payments?
162.325
What form of payment is acceptable under a residential lease?
162.326
May a residential lease provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
162.327
Will BIA notify a lessee when a payment is due under a residential lease?
162.328
Must a residential lease provide for rental reviews or adjustments?
162.329
What other types of payments are required under a residential lease?

# Bonding and Insurance
162.334
Is a performance bond required for a residential lease document?
162.335
Is insurance required for a residential lease document?
162.336-162.337
[Reserved]

# Approval
162.338
What documents are required for BIA approval of a residential lease?
162.339
Will BIA review a proposed residential lease before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
162.340
What is the approval process for a residential lease?
162.341
How will BIA decide whether to approve a residential lease?
162.342
When will a residential lease be effective?
162.343
Must a residential lease document be recorded?
162.344
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a residential lease document?

# Amendments
162.345
May the parties amend a residential lease?
162.346
What are the consent requirements for an amendment of a residential lease?
162.347
What is the approval process for an amendment of a residential lease?
162.348
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment of a residential lease?

# Assignments
162.349
May a lessee assign a residential lease?
162.350
What are the consent requirements for an assignment of a residential lease?
162.351
What is the approval process for an assignment of a residential lease?
162.352
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a residential lease?

# Subleases
162.353
May a lessee sublease a residential lease?
162.354
What are the consent requirements for a sublease of a residential lease?
162.355
What is the approval process for a sublease of a residential lease?
162.356
How will BIA decide whether to approve a sublease of a residential lease?

# Leasehold Mortgages
162.357
May a lessee mortgage a residential lease?
162.358
What are the consent requirements for a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease?
162.359
What is the approval process for a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease?
162.360
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease?

# Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
162.361
When will an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a residential lease be effective?
162.362
What happens if BIA disapproves an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage?
162.363
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease document?
162.364
May BIA investigate compliance with a residential lease?
162.365
May a residential lease provide for negotiated remedies if there is a violation?
162.366
What will BIA do about a violation of a residential lease?
162.367
What will BIA do if the lessee does not cure a violation of a residential lease on time?
162.368
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a residential lease?
162.369
How will payment rights relating to a residential lease be allocated?
162.370
When will a cancellation of a residential lease be effective?
162.371
What will BIA do if a lessee remains in possession after a residential lease expires or is terminated or cancelled?
162.372
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving residential leases?
162.373
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a residential leasing decision?
162.374
What happens if the lessee abandons the leased premises?

# Subpart D—Business Leases

# Business Leasing General Provisions
162.401
What types of leases does this subpart cover?
162.402
Is there a model business lease form?

# Lease Requirements
162.411
How long may the term of a business lease run?
162.412
What must the lease include if it contains an option to renew?
162.413
Are there mandatory provisions that a business lease must contain?
162.414
May permanent improvements be made under a business lease?
162.415
How must a business lease address ownership of permanent improvements?
162.416
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a business lease?
162.417
What requirements for due diligence must a business lease include?
162.418
How must a business lease describe the land?
162.419
May a business lease allow compatible uses?

# Monetary Compensation Requirements
162.420
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a business lease of tribal land?
162.421
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a business lease of individually owned Indian land?
162.422
How will BIA determine fair market rental for a business lease?
162.423
When are monetary compensation payments due under a business lease?
162.424
Must a business lease specify who receives monetary compensation payments?
162.425
What form of monetary compensation payment is acceptable under a business lease?
162.426
May the business lease provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
162.427
Will BIA notify a lessee when a payment is due under a business lease?
162.428
Must a business lease provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
162.429
What other types of payments are required under a business lease?

# Bonding and Insurance
162.434
Must a lessee provide a performance bond for a business lease?
162.435
What forms of security are acceptable under a business lease?
162.436
What is the release process for a performance bond or alternative form of security under a business lease?
162.437
Must a lessee provide insurance for a business lease?

# Approval
162.438
What documents are required for BIA approval of a business lease?
162.439
Will BIA review a proposed business lease before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
162.440
What is the approval process for a business lease?
162.441
How will BIA decide whether to approve a business lease?
162.442
When will a business lease be effective?
162.443
Must a business lease document be recorded?
162.444
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a business lease document?

# Amendments
162.445
May the parties amend a business lease?
162.446
What are the consent requirements for an amendment to a business lease?
162.447
What is the approval process for an amendment to a business lease?
162.448
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment to a business lease?

# Assignments
162.449
May a lessee assign a business lease?
162.450
What are the consent requirements for an assignment of a business lease?
162.451
What is the approval process for an assignment of a business lease?
162.452
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a business lease?

# Subleases
162.453
May a lessee sublease a business lease?
162.454
What are the consent requirements for a sublease of a business lease?
162.455
What is the approval process for a sublease of a business lease?
162.456
How will BIA decide whether to approve a sublease of a business lease?

# Leasehold Mortgages
162.457
May a lessee mortgage a business lease?
162.458
What are the consent requirements for a leasehold mortgage of a business lease?
162.459
What is the approval process for a leasehold mortgage of a business lease?
162.460
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage of a business lease?

# Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
162.461
When will an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a business lease be effective?
162.462
What happens if BIA disapproves an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a business lease?
162.463
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease document?
162.464
May BIA investigate compliance with a business lease?
162.465
May a business lease provide for negotiated remedies if there is a violation?
162.466
What will BIA do about a violation of a business lease?
162.467
What will BIA do if the lessee does not cure a violation of a business lease on time?
162.468
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a business lease?
162.469
How will payment rights relating to a business lease be allocated?
162.470
When will a cancellation of a business lease be effective?
162.471
What will BIA do if a lessee remains in possession after a business lease expires or is terminated or cancelled?
162.472
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving business leases?
162.473
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a business leasing decision?
162.474
What happens if the lessee abandons the leased premises?

# Subpart E—Wind and Solar Resource Leases

# General Provisions Applicable to WEELs and WSR Leases
162.501
What types of leases does this subpart cover?
162.502
Who must obtain a WEEL or WSR lease?
162.503
Is there a model WEEL or WSR lease?

# WEELs
162.511
What is the purpose of a WEEL?
162.512
How long may the term of a WEEL run?
162.513
Are there mandatory provisions a WEEL must contain?
162.514
May permanent improvements be made under a WEEL?
162.515
How must a WEEL address ownership of permanent improvements?
162.516
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a WEEL?
162.517
What requirements for due diligence must a WEEL include?
162.518
How must a WEEL describe the land?
162.519
May a WEEL allow for compatible uses by the Indian landowner?
162.520
Who owns the energy resource information obtained under the WEEL?
162.521
May a lessee incorporate its WEEL analyses into its WSR lease analyses?
162.522
May a WEEL contain an option for a lessee to enter into a WSR lease?

# WEEL Monetary Compensation Requirements
162.523
How much compensation must be paid under a WEEL?
162.524
Will BIA require a valuation for a WEEL?

# WEEL Bonding and Insurance
162.525
Must a lessee provide a performance bond for a WEEL?
162.526
[Reserved]
162.527
Must a lessee provide insurance for a WEEL?

# WEEL Approval
162.528
What documents are required for BIA approval of a WEEL?
162.529
Will BIA review a proposed WEEL before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
162.530
What is the approval process for a WEEL?
162.531
How will BIA decide whether to approve a WEEL?
162.532
When will a WEEL be effective?
162.533
Must a WEEL lease document be recorded?

# WEEL Administration
162.534
May the parties amend, assign, sublease, or mortgage a WEEL?

# WEEL Compliance and Enforcement
162.535
What effectiveness, compliance, and enforcement provisions apply to WEELs?
162.536
Under what circumstance may a WEEL be terminated?
162.537
[Reserved]

# WSR Leases
162.538
What is the purpose of a WSR lease?
162.539
Must I obtain a WEEL before obtaining a WSR lease?
162.540
How long may the term of a WSR lease run?
162.541
What must the lease include if it contains an option to renew?
162.542
Are there mandatory provisions a WSR lease must contain?
162.543
May permanent improvements be made under a WSR lease?
162.544
How must a WSR lease address ownership of permanent improvements?
162.545
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a WSR lease?
162.546
What requirements for due diligence must a WSR lease include?
162.547
How must a WSR lease describe the land?
162.548
May a WSR lease allow compatible uses?

# WSR Lease Monetary Compensation Requirements
162.549
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a WSR lease of tribal land?
162.550
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a WSR lease of individually owned Indian land?
162.551
How will BIA determine fair market rental for a WSR lease?
162.552
When are monetary compensation payments due under a WSR lease?
162.553
Must a WSR lease specify who receives monetary compensation payments?
162.554
What form of monetary compensation payment is acceptable under a WSR lease?
162.555
May a WSR lease provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
162.556
Will BIA notify a lessee when a payment is due under a WSR lease?
162.557
Must a WSR lease provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
162.558
What other types of payments are required under a WSR lease?

# WSR Lease Bonding and Insurance
162.559
Must a lessee provide a performance bond for a WSR lease?
162.560
What forms of security are acceptable under a WSR lease?
162.561
What is the release process for a performance bond or alternative form of security under a WSR lease?
162.562
Must a lessee provide insurance for a WSR lease?

# WSR Lease Approval
162.563
What documents are required for BIA approval of a WSR lease?
162.564
Will BIA review a proposed WSR lease before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
162.565
What is the approval process for a WSR lease?
162.566
How will BIA decide whether to approve a WSR lease?
162.567
When will a WSR lease be effective?
162.568
Must a WSR lease document be recorded?
162.569
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a WSR lease document?

# WSR Lease Amendments
162.570
May the parties amend a WSR lease?
162.571
What are the consent requirements for an amendment to a WSR lease?
162.572
What is the approval process for an amendment to a WSR lease?
162.573
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment to a WSR lease?

# WSR Lease Assignments
162.574
May a lessee assign a WSR lease?
162.575
What are the consent requirements for an assignment of a WSR lease?
162.576
What is the approval process for an assignment of a WSR lease?
162.577
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a WSR lease?

# WSR Lease Subleases
162.578
May a lessee sublease a WSR lease?
162.579
What are the consent requirements for a sublease of a WSR lease?
162.580
What is the approval process for a sublease of a WSR lease?
162.581
How will BIA decide whether to approve a sublease of a WSR lease?

# WSR Lease Leasehold Mortgages
162.582
May a lessee mortgage a WSR lease?
162.583
What are the consent requirements for a leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?
162.584
What is the approval process for a leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?
162.585
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?

# WSR Lease—Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
162.586
When will an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease be effective?
162.587
What happens if BIA disapproves an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?
162.588
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease document?
162.589
May BIA investigate compliance with a WSR lease?
162.590
May a WSR lease provide for negotiated remedies if there is a violation?
162.591
What will BIA do about a violation of a WSR lease?
162.592
What will BIA do if a lessee does not cure a violation of a WSR lease on time?
162.593
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a WSR lease?
162.594
How will payment rights relating to WSR leases be allocated?
162.595
When will a cancellation of a WSR lease be effective?
162.596
What will BIA do if a lessee remains in possession after a WSR lease expires or is terminated or cancelled?
162.597
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving WSR leases?
162.598
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a WSR leasing decision?
162.599
What happens if the lessee abandons the leased premises?

# Subpart F—Special Requirements for Certain Reservations
162.600
Crow Reservation.
162.601
Fort Belknap Reservation.
162.602
Cabazon, Augustine, and Torres-Martinez Reservations, California.
162.603
San Xavier and Salt River Pima-Maricopa Reservations.

# Subpart G—Records
162.701
Who owns the records associated with this part?
162.702
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
162.703
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, R.S. 463 and 465; 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9. Interpret or apply sec. 3, 26 Stat. 795, sec. 1, 28 Stat. 305, secs. 1, 2, 31 Stat. 229, 246, secs. 7, 12, 34 Stat. 545, 34 Stat. 1015, 1034, 35 Stat. 70, 95, 97, sec. 4, 36 Stat. 856, sec. 1, 39 Stat. 128, 41 Stat. 415, as amended, 751, 1232, sec. 17, 43 Stat. 636, 641, 44 Stat. 658, as amended, 894, 1365, as amended, 47 Stat. 1417, sec. 17, 48 Stat. 984, 988, 49 Stat. 115, 1135, sec. 55, 49 Stat. 781, sec. 3, 49 Stat. 1967, 54 Stat. 745, 1057, 60 Stat. 308, secs. 1, 2, 60 Stat. 962, sec. 5, 64 Stat. 46, secs. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 64 Stat. 470, 69 Stat. 539, 540, 72 Stat. 968, 107 Stat. 2011, 108 Stat. 4572, March 20, 1996, 110 Stat. 4016; 25 U.S.C. 380, 393, 393a, 394, 395, 397, 402, 402a, 403, 403a, 403b, 403c, 409a, 413, 415, 415a, 415b, 415c, 415d, 416, 477, 635, 2201
et seq.,
3701, 3702, 3703, 3712, 3713, 3714, 3715, 3731, 3733, 4211; 44 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.

# Source:
66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
77 FR 72467, Dec. 5, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Purpose, Definitions, and Scope
§ 162.001
What is the purpose of this part?
(a) The purpose of this part is to promote leasing on Indian land for housing, economic development, and other purposes.
(b) This part specifies:
(1) Conditions and authorities under which we will approve leases of Indian land and may issue permits on Government land;
(2) How to obtain leases;
(3) Terms and conditions required in leases;
(4) How we administer and enforce leases; and
(5) Special requirements for leases made under special acts of Congress that apply only to certain Indian reservations.
(c) If any section, paragraph, or provision of this part is stayed or held invalid, the remaining sections, paragraphs, or provisions of this part remain in full force and effect.
§ 162.002
How is this part subdivided?
(a) This part includes multiple subparts relating to:
(1) General Provisions (Subpart A);
(2) Agricultural Leases (Subpart B);
(3) Residential Leases (Subpart C);
(4) Business Leases (Subpart D);
(5) Wind Energy Evaluation, Wind Resource, and Solar Resource Leases (Subpart E);
(6) Special Requirements for Certain Reservations (Subpart F); and
(7) Records (Subpart G).
(b) Leases covered by subpart B are not subject to the provisions in subpart A. Leases covered by subpart B are subject to the provisions in subpart G, except that if a provision in subpart B conflicts with a provision of subpart G, then the provision in subpart B will govern.
(c) Subpart F applies only to leases made under special acts of Congress covering particular Indian reservations. Leases covered by subpart F are also subject to the provisions in subparts A through G, except to the extent that subparts A through G are inconsistent with the provisions in subpart F or any act of Congress under which the lease is made, in which case the provisions in subpart F or any act of Congress under which the lease is made will govern.
§ 162.003
What key terms do I need to know?
Adult
means a person who is 18 years of age or older.
Appeal bond
means a bond posted upon filing of an appeal.
Approval
means written authorization by the Secretary or a delegated official or, where applicable, the “deemed approved” authorization of an amendment or sublease.
Assignment
means an agreement between a lessee and an assignee, whereby the assignee acquires all or some of the lessee's rights, and assumes all or some of the lessee's obligations, under a lease.
BIA
means the Secretary of the Interior or the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior and any tribe acting on behalf of the Secretary or Bureau of Indian Affairs under § 162.018.
Business day
means Monday through Friday, excluding federally recognized holidays and other days that the applicable office of the Federal Government is closed to the public.
Cancellation
means BIA action to end a lease.
Consent or consenting
means written authorization by an Indian landowner to a specified action.
Constructive notice
means notice:
(1) Posted at the tribal government office, tribal community building, and/or the United States Post Office; and
(2) Published in the local newspaper(s) nearest to the affected land and/or announced on a local radio station(s).
Court of competent jurisdiction
means a Federal, tribal, or State court with jurisdiction.
Day
means a calendar day, unless otherwise specified.
Emancipated minor
means a person less than 18 years of age who is married or who is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be legally able to care for himself or herself.
Equipment installation plan
means a plan that describes the type and location of any improvements to be installed by the lessee to evaluate the wind resources and a schedule showing the tentative commencement and completion dates for installation of those improvements.
Fair market rental
means the amount of rental income that a leased tract of Indian land would most probably command in an open and competitive market, or as determined by competitive bidding.
Fee interest
means an interest in land that is owned in unrestricted fee status, and is thus freely alienable by the fee owner.
Fractionated tract
means a tract of Indian land owned in common by Indian landowners and/or fee owners holding undivided interests therein.
Government land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the surface estate is owned and administered by the United States, not including Indian land.
Holdover
means circumstances in which a lessee remains in possession of the leased premises after the lease term expires.
Housing for public purposes
means multi-family developments, single-family residential developments, and single-family residences:
(1) Administered by a tribe or tribally designated housing entity (TDHE); or
(2) Substantially financed using a tribal, Federal, or State housing assistance program or TDHE.
Immediate family
means, in the absence of a definition under applicable tribal law, a spouse, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, first cousin, lineal ancestor, lineal descendant, or member of the household.
Indian
means:
(1) Any person who is a member of any Indian tribe, is eligible to become a member of any Indian tribe, or is an owner as of October 27, 2004, of a trust or restricted interest in land;
(2) Any person meeting the definition of Indian under the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 479) and the regulations promulgated thereunder; and
(3) With respect to the inheritance and ownership of trust or restricted land in the State of California under 25 U.S.C. 2206, any person described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition or any person who owns a trust or restricted interest in a parcel of such land in that State.
Indian land
means any tract in which any interest in the surface estate is owned by a tribe or individual Indian in trust or restricted status and includes both individually owned Indian land and tribal land.
Indian landowner
means a tribe or individual Indian who owns an interest in Indian land.
Individually owned Indian land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the surface estate is owned by an individual Indian in trust or restricted status.
Indian tribe
means an Indian tribe under section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a).
Interest,
when used with respect to Indian land, means an ownership right to the surface estate of Indian land.
Lease
means a written contract between Indian landowners and a lessee, whereby the lessee is granted a right to possess Indian land, for a specified purpose and duration. The lessee's right to possess will limit the Indian landowners' right to possess the leased premises only to the extent provided in the lease.
Lease document
means a lease, amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage.
Leasehold mortgage
means a mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument that pledges a lessee's leasehold interest as security for a debt or other obligation owed by the lessee to a lender or other mortgagee.
Lessee
means person or entity who has acquired a legal right to possess Indian land by a lease under this part.
Life estate
means an interest in property held only for the duration of a designated person(s)' life. A life estate may be created by a conveyance document or by operation of law.
LTRO
means the Land Titles and Records Office of the BIA.
Mail
means to send something by U.S. Postal Service or commercial delivery service.
Minor
means an individual who is less than 18 years of age.
Mortgagee
means the holder of a leasehold mortgage.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
Nominal rental or nominal compensation
means a rental amount that is so insignificant that it bears no relationship to the value of the property that is being leased.
Non compos mentis
means that the person to whom the term is applied has been legally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be of unsound mind or incapable of managing his or her own affairs.
Notice of violation
means a letter notifying the lessee of a violation of the lease and providing the lessee with a specified period of time to show cause why the lease should not be cancelled for the violation. A 10-day show cause letter is one type of notice of violation.
Orphaned minor
means a minor whose parents are deceased.
Performance bond
means security for the performance of certain lease obligations, as furnished by the lessee, or a guaranty of such performance as furnished by a third-party surety.
Permanent improvements
means buildings, other structures, and associated infrastructure attached to the leased premises.
Permit
means a written, non-assignable agreement between Indian landowners or BIA and the permittee, whereby the permittee is granted a temporary, revocable privilege to use Indian land or Government land, for a specified purpose.
Permittee
means a person or entity who has acquired a privilege to use Indian land or Government land by a permit.
Power of attorney
means an authority by which one person enables another to act for him or her as attorney-in-fact.
Remainder interest
means an interest in Indian land that is created at the same time as a life estate, for the use and enjoyment of its owner after the life estate terminates.
Restoration and reclamation plan
means a plan that defines the reclamation, revegetation, restoration, and soil stabilization requirements for the project area, and requires the expeditious reclamation of construction areas and revegetation of disturbed areas to reduce invasive plant infestation and erosion.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Single-family residence
means a building with one to four dwelling units on a tract of land under a single residential lease, or as defined by applicable tribal law or other tribal authorization.
Single-family residential development
means two or more single-family residences owned, managed, or developed by a single entity.
Sublease
means a written agreement by which the lessee grants to an individual or entity a right to possession no greater than that held by the lessee under the lease.
Surety
means one who guarantees the performance of another.
TDHE
means a tribally designated housing entity under 25 U.S.C. 4103(22), a tribally-sponsored or tribally sanctioned not-for-profit entity, or any limited partnership or other entity organized for the purpose of developing or improving low-income housing utilizing tax credits.
Termination
means action by Indian landowners to end a lease.
Trespass
means any unauthorized occupancy, use of, or action on any Indian land or Government land.
Tribal authorization
means a duly adopted tribal resolution, tribal ordinance, or other appropriate tribal document authorizing the specified action.
Tribal land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the surface estate is owned by one or more tribes in trust or restricted status, and includes such lands reserved for BIA administrative purposes. The term also includes the surface estate of lands held by the United States in trust for an Indian corporation chartered under section 17 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 988; 25 U.S.C. 477).
Tribal land assignment
means a contract or agreement that conveys to tribal members or wholly owned tribal
corporations any rights for the use of tribal lands, assigned by an Indian tribe in accordance with tribal laws or customs.
Tribal law
means the body of non-Federal law that governs lands and activities under the jurisdiction of a tribe, including ordinances or other enactments by the tribe, and tribal court rulings.
Trust or restricted land
means any tract, or interest therein, held in trust or restricted status.
Trust or restricted status
means:
(1) That the United States holds title to the tract or interest in trust for the benefit of one or more tribes or individual Indians; or
(2) That one or more tribes or individual Indians holds title to the tract or interest, but can alienate or encumber it only with the approval of the United States because of limitations in the conveyance instrument under Federal law or limitations in Federal law.
Undivided interest
means a fractional share in the surface estate of Indian land, where the surface estate is owned in common with other Indian landowners or fee owners.
USPAP
means the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation to establish requirements and procedures for professional real property appraisal practice.
Us/we/our
means the BIA.
Violation
means a failure to take an action, including payment of compensation, when required by the lease, or to otherwise not comply with a term of the lease. This definition applies for purposes of our enforcement of a lease under this part no matter how “violation” or “default” is defined in the lease.
§ 162.004
To what land does this part apply?
(a) This part applies to Indian land and Government land, including any tract in which an individual Indian or Indian tribe owns an interest in trust or restricted status.
(1) We will not take any action on a lease of fee interests or collect rent on behalf of fee interest owners. We will not condition our approval of a lease of the trust and restricted interests on your having obtained a lease from the owners of any fee interests. The lessee will be responsible for accounting to the owners of any fee interests that may exist in the property being leased.
(2) We will not include the fee interests in a tract in calculating the applicable percentage of interests required for consent to a lease document.
(b) This paragraph (b) applies if there is a life estate on the land to be leased.
(1) When all of the trust or restricted interests in a tract are subject to a single life estate, the life tenant may lease the land without the consent of the owners of the remainder interests or our approval, for the duration of the life estate.
(i) The lease will terminate upon the death of the life tenant.
(ii) The life tenant must record the lease in the LTRO.
(iii) The lessee must pay rent directly to the life tenant under the terms of the lease unless the whereabouts of the life tenant are unknown, in which case we may collect rents on behalf of the life tenant.
(iv) We may monitor the use of the land on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests, as appropriate, but will not be responsible for enforcing the lease on behalf of the life tenant.
(v) We will not lease the remainder interests or join in a lease by the life tenant on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests except as needed to preserve the value of the land.
(vi) We will be responsible for enforcing the terms of the lease on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests.
(2) When less than all of the trust or restricted interests in a tract are subject to a single life estate, the life tenant may lease his or her interest without the consent of the owners of the remainder interests, but must obtain the consent of the co-owners and our approval.
(i) We will not lease on the life tenant's behalf.
(ii) The lease must provide that the lessee pays the life tenant directly, unless the life tenant's whereabouts are unknown in which case we may collect rents on behalf of the life tenant.
(iii) The lease must be recorded in the LTRO, even where our approval is not required.
(iv) We will be responsible for enforcing the terms of the lease on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests.
(3) Where the remaindermen and the life tenant have not entered into a lease or other written agreement approved by the Secretary providing for the distribution of rent monies under the lease, the life tenant will receive payment in accordance with the distribution and calculation scheme set forth in Part 179 of this chapter.
(4) The life tenant may not cause or allow permanent injury to the land.
(5) The life tenant must provide a copy of the executed lease to all owners of the remainder interests.

# When to Get a Lease
§ 162.005
When do I need a lease to authorize possession of Indian land?
(a) You need a lease under this part to possess Indian land if you meet one of the criteria in the following table, unless you are authorized to possess or use the Indian land by a land use agreement not subject to this part under § 162.006(b) or by a permit.
If you are . . .
then you must obtain a lease under this part . . .
(1) A person or legal entity (including an independent legal entity owned and operated by a tribe) who is not an owner of the Indian land
from the owners of the land before taking possession of the land or any portion thereof.
(2) An Indian landowner of a fractional interest in the land
from the owners of other trust and restricted interests in the land, unless all of the owners have given you permission to take or continue in possession without a lease.
(b) You do not need a lease to possess Indian land if:
(1) You are an Indian landowner who owns 100 percent of the trust or restricted interests in a tract; or
(2) You meet any of the criteria in the following table.
You do not need a lease if you are . . .
but the following conditions apply . . .
(i) A parent or guardian of a minor child who owns 100 percent of the trust or restricted interests in the land
We may require you to provide evidence of a direct benefit to the minor child and when the child is no longer a minor, you must obtain a lease to authorize continued possession.
(ii) A 25 U.S.C. 477 corporate entity that manages or has the power to manage the tribal land directly under its Federal charter or under a tribal authorization (not under a lease from the Indian tribe)
You must record documents in accordance with § 162.343, § 162.443, and § 162.568.
§ 162.006
To what types of land use agreements does this part apply?
(a) This part applies to leases of Indian land entered into under 25 U.S.C. 380, 25 U.S.C. 415(a), and 25 U.S.C. 4211, and other tribe-specific statutes authorizing surface leases of Indian land with our approval.
(b) This part does not apply to:
(1) Land use agreements entered into under other statutory authority, such as the following:
This part does not apply to . . .
which are covered by . . .
(i) Contracts or agreements that encumber tribal land under 25 U.S.C. 81
25 CFR part 84.
(ii) Traders' licenses
25 CFR part 140.
(iii) Timber contracts
25 CFR part 163.
(iv) Grazing permits
25 CFR part 166.
(v) Rights-of-way
25 CFR part 169.
(vi) Mineral leases, prospecting permits, or mineral development agreements
25 CFR parts 211, 212, 213, 225, 226, 227.
(vii) Tribal land assignments and similar instruments authorizing uses of tribal land
tribal laws.
(2) Leases of water rights associated with Indian land, except to the extent the use of water rights is incorporated in a lease of the land itself.
(3) The following leases, which do not require our approval, except that you must record these leases in accordance with §§ 162.343, 162.443, and 162.568:
(i) A lease of tribal land by a 25 U.S.C. 477 corporate entity under its charter to a third party for a period not to exceed 25 years; and
(ii) A lease of Indian land under a special act of Congress authorizing leasing without our approval.
§ 162.007
To what permits does this part apply?
(a) Permits for the use of Indian land do not require our approval; however, you must fulfill the following requirements:
(1) Ensure that permitted activities comply with all applicable environmental and cultural resource laws; and
(2) Submit all permits to the appropriate BIA office to allow us to maintain a copy of the permit in our records. If we determine within 10 days of submission that the document does not meet the definition of “permit” and grants a legal interest in Indian land, we will notify you that a lease is required.
(b) The following table provides examples of some common characteristics of permits versus leases.
Permit
Lease
Does not grant a legal interest in Indian land
Grants a legal interest in Indian land.
Shorter term
Longer term.
Limited use
Broader use with associated infrastructure.
Permittee has non-possessory right of access
Lessee has right of possession, ability to limit or prohibit access by others.
Indian landowner may terminate at any time
Indian landowner may terminate under limited circumstances.
(c) We will not administer or enforce permits on Indian land.
(d) We may grant permits for the use of Government land. The leasing regulations in this part will apply to such permits, as appropriate.
§ 162.008
Does this part apply to lease documents I submitted for approval before January 4, 2013?
This part applies to all lease documents, except as provided in § 162.006. If you submitted your lease document to us for approval before January 4, 2013, the qualifications in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section also apply.
(a) If we approved your lease document before January 4, 2013, this part applies to that lease document; however, if the provisions of the lease document conflict with this part, the provisions of the lease govern.
(b) If you submitted a lease document but we did not approve it before January 4, 2013, then:
(1) We will review the lease document under the regulations in effect at the time of your submission; and
(2) Once we approve the lease document, this part applies to that lease document; however, if the provisions of the lease document conflict with this part, the provisions of the lease document govern.
§ 162.009
Do I need BIA approval of a subleasehold mortgage?
Unless the lease provides otherwise, sublease, or by request of the parties, you do not need our approval of a subleasehold mortgage. If the lease or sublease requires, or parties request, our approval, we will use the procedures governing our review of leasehold mortgages.

# How to Get a Lease
§ 162.010
How do I obtain a lease?
(a) This section establishes the basic steps to obtain a lease.
(1) Prospective lessees must:
(i) Directly negotiate with Indian landowners for a lease; and
(ii) For fractionated tracts, notify all Indian landowners and obtain the consent of the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests, under § 162.012; and
(2) Prospective lessees and Indian landowners must:
(i) Prepare the required information and analyses, including information to facilitate our analysis under applicable environmental and cultural resource requirements; and
(ii) Ensure the lease complies with the requirements in subpart C for residential leases, subpart D for business leases, or subpart E for wind energy evaluation, wind resource, or solar resource leases; and
(3) Prospective lessees or Indian landowners must submit the lease, and required information and analyses, to the BIA office with jurisdiction over the lands covered by the lease, for our review and approval.
(b) Generally, residential, business, wind energy evaluation, wind resource, and solar resource leases will not be advertised for competitive bid.
§ 162.011
How does a prospective lessee identify and contact individual Indian landowners to negotiate a lease?
(a) Prospective lessees may submit a written request to us to obtain the following information. The request must specify that it is for the purpose of negotiating a lease:
(1) Names and addresses of the individual Indian landowners or their representatives;
(2) Information on the location of the parcel; and
(3) The percentage of undivided interest owned by each individual Indian landowner.
(b) We may assist prospective lessees in contacting the individual Indian landowners or their representatives for the purpose of negotiating a lease, upon request.
(c) We will assist individual Indian landowners in lease negotiations, upon their request.
§ 162.012
What are the consent requirements for a lease?
(a) For fractionated tracts:
(1) Except in Alaska, the owners of the following percentage of undivided trust or restricted interests in a fractionated tract of Indian land must consent to a lease of that tract:
If the number of owners of the undivided trust or restricted interest in the tract is . . .
Then the required percentage of the undivided trust or restricted interest is . . .
(i) One to five,
90 percent;
(ii) Six to 10,
80 percent;
(iii) 11 to 19,
60 percent;
(iv) 20 or more,
Over 50 percent.
(2) Leases in Alaska require consent of all of the Indian landowners in the tract.
(3) If the prospective lessee is also an Indian landowner, his or her consent will be included in the percentages in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(4) Where owners of the applicable percentages in paragraph (a)(1) of this section consent to a lease document:
(i) That lease document binds all non-consenting owners to the same extent as if those owners also consented to the lease document; and
(ii) That lease document will not bind a non-consenting Indian tribe, except with respect to the tribally owned fractional interest, and the non-consenting Indian tribe will not be treated as a party to the lease. Nothing in this paragraph affects the sovereignty or sovereign immunity of the Indian tribe.
(5) We will determine the number of owners of, and undivided interests in, a fractionated tract of Indian land, for the purposes of calculating the percentages in paragraph (a)(1) of this section based on our records on the date on which the lease is submitted to us for approval.
(b) Tribal land subject to a tribal land assignment may only be leased with the consent of the tribe.
§ 162.013
Who is authorized to consent to a lease?
(a) Indian tribes, adult Indian landowners, and emancipated minors, may consent to a lease of their land, including undivided interests in fractionated tracts.
(b) The following individuals or entities may consent on behalf of an individual Indian landowner:
(1) An adult with legal custody acting on behalf of his or her minor children;
(2) A guardian, conservator, or other fiduciary appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to act on behalf of an individual Indian landowner;
(3) Any person who is authorized to practice before the Department of the Interior under 43 CFR 1.3(b) and has been retained by the Indian landowner for this purpose;
(4) BIA, under the circumstances in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(5) An adult or legal entity who has been given a written power of attorney that:
(i) Meets all of the formal requirements of any applicable law under § 162.014;
(ii) Identifies the attorney-in-fact; and
(iii) Describes the scope of the powers granted, to include leasing land, and any limits on those powers.
(c) BIA may give written consent to a lease, and that consent must be counted in the percentage ownership described in § 162.012, on behalf of:
(1) The individual owner if the owner is deceased and the heirs to, or devisees
of, the interest of the deceased owner have not been determined;
(2) An individual whose whereabouts are unknown to us, after we make a reasonable attempt to locate the individual;
(3) An individual who is found to be non compos mentis or determined to be an adult in need of assistance who does not have a guardian duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, or an individual under legal disability as defined in part 115 of this chapter;
(4) An orphaned minor who does not have a guardian duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(5) An individual who has given us a written power of attorney to lease their land; and
(6) The individual Indian landowners of a fractionated tract where:
(i) We have given the Indian landowners written notice of our intent to consent to a lease on their behalf;
(ii) The Indian landowners are unable to agree upon a lease during a 3 month negotiation period following the notice; and
(iii) The land is not being used by an Indian landowner under § 162.005(b)(1).

# Lease Administration
§ 162.014
What laws will apply to leases approved under this part?
(a) In addition to the regulations in this part, leases approved under this part:
(1) Are subject to applicable Federal laws and any specific Federal statutory requirements that are not incorporated in this part;
(2) Are subject to tribal law, subject to paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) Are not subject to State law or the law of a political subdivision thereof except that:
(i) State law or the law of a political subdivision thereof may apply in the specific areas and circumstances in Indian country where the Indian tribe with jurisdiction has made it expressly applicable;
(ii) State law may apply in the specific areas and circumstances in Indian country where Congress has made it expressly applicable; and
(iii) State law may apply where a Federal court has expressly applied State law to a specific area or circumstance in Indian country in the absence of Federal or tribal law.
(b) Tribal laws generally apply to land under the jurisdiction of the tribe enacting the laws, except to the extent that those tribal laws are inconsistent with these regulations or other applicable Federal law. However, these regulations may be superseded or modified by tribal laws, as long as:
(1) The tribe has notified us of the superseding or modifying effect of the tribal laws;
(2) The superseding or modifying of the regulation would not violate a Federal statute or judicial decision, or conflict with our general trust responsibility under Federal law; and
(3) The superseding or modifying of the regulation applies only to tribal land.
(c) Unless prohibited by Federal law, the parties to a lease may subject that lease to State or local law in the absence of Federal or tribal law, if:
(1) The lease includes a provision to this effect; and
(2) The Indian landowners expressly agree to the application of State or local law.
(d) An agreement under paragraph (c) of this section does not waive a tribe's sovereign immunity unless the tribe expressly states its intention to waive sovereign immunity in the lease of tribal land.
§ 162.015
May a lease contain a preference consistent with tribal law for employment of tribal members?
A lease of Indian land may include a provision, consistent with tribal law, requiring the lessee to give a preference to qualified tribal members, based on their political affiliation with the tribe.
§ 162.016
Will BIA comply with tribal laws in making lease decisions?
Unless contrary to Federal law, BIA will comply with tribal laws in making decisions regarding leases, including tribal laws regulating activities on leased land under tribal jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, tribal laws relating to land use, environmental protection, and historic or cultural preservation.
§ 162.017
What taxes apply to leases approved under this part?
(a) Subject only to applicable Federal law, permanent improvements on the leased land, without regard to ownership of those improvements, are not subject to any fee, tax, assessment, levy, or other charge imposed by any State or political subdivision of a State. Improvements may be subject to taxation by the Indian tribe with jurisdiction.
(b) Subject only to applicable Federal law, activities under a lease conducted on the leased premises are not subject to any fee, tax, assessment, levy, or other charge (e.g., business use, privilege, public utility, excise, gross revenue taxes) imposed by any State or political subdivision of a State. Activities may be subject to taxation by the Indian tribe with jurisdiction.
(c) Subject only to applicable Federal law, the leasehold or possessory interest is not subject to any fee, tax, assessment, levy, or other charge imposed by any State or political subdivision of a State. Leasehold or possessory interests may be subject to taxation by the Indian tribe with jurisdiction.
§ 162.018
May tribes administer this part on BIA's behalf?
A tribe or tribal organization may contract or compact under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450f
et seq.
) to administer any portion of this part that is not an approval or disapproval of a lease document, waiver of a requirement for lease approval (including but not limited to waivers of fair market rental and valuation, bonding, and insurance), cancellation of a lease, or an appeal.
§ 162.019
May a lease address access to the leased premises by roads or other infrastructure?
A lease may address access to the leased premises by roads or other infrastructure, as long as the access complies with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, including 25 CFR part 169. Roads or other infrastructure within the leased premises do not require compliance with 25 CFR part 169 during the term of the lease, unless otherwise stated in the lease.
§ 162.020
May a lease combine tracts with different Indian landowners?
(a) We may approve a lease that combines multiple tracts of Indian land into a unit, if we determine that unitization is:
(1) In the Indian landowners' best interest; and
(2) Consistent with the efficient administration of the land.
(b) For a lease that covers multiple tracts, the minimum consent requirements apply to each tract separately.
(c) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the rent or other compensation will be prorated in proportion to the acreage each tract contributes to the entire lease. Once prorated per tract, the rent will be distributed to the owners of each tract based upon their respective percentage interest in that particular tract.
§ 162.021
What are BIA's responsibilities in approving leases?
(a) We will work to provide assistance to Indian landowners in leasing their land, either through negotiations or advertisement.
(b) We will promote tribal control and self-determination over tribal land and other land under the tribe's jurisdiction, including through contracts and self-governance compacts entered into under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450f
et. seq.
(c) We will promptly respond to requests for BIA approval of leases, as specified in §§ 162.340, 162.440, 162.530, and 162.565.
(d) We will work to ensure that the use of the land is consistent with the Indian landowners' wishes and applicable tribal law.
§ 162.022
What are BIA's responsibilities in administering and enforcing leases?
(a) Upon written notification from an Indian landowner that the lessee has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the lease, we will promptly take appropriate action, as specified in §§ 162.364, 162.464, and 162.589. Nothing
in this part prevents an Indian landowner from exercising remedies available to the Indian landowners under the lease or applicable law.
(b) We will promptly respond to requests for BIA approval of amendments, assignments, leasehold mortgages, and subleases, as specified in subparts C, D, and E.
(c) We will respond to Indian landowners' concerns regarding the management of their land.
(d) We will take emergency action as needed to preserve the value of the land under § 162.024.
§ 162.023
What if an individual or entity takes possession of or uses Indian land without an approved lease or other proper authorization?
If an individual or entity takes possession of, or uses, Indian land without a lease and a lease is required, the unauthorized possession or use is a trespass. We may take action to recover possession, including eviction, on behalf of the Indian landowners and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law. The Indian landowners may pursue any available remedies under applicable law.
§ 162.024
May BIA take emergency action if Indian land is threatened?
(a) We may take appropriate emergency action if there is a natural disaster or if an individual or entity causes or threatens to cause immediate and significant harm to Indian land. Emergency action may include judicial action seeking immediate cessation of the activity resulting in or threatening the harm.
(b) We will make reasonable efforts to notify the individual Indian landowners before and after taking emergency action. In all cases, we will notify the Indian landowners after taking emergency action by actual or constructive notice. We will provide written notification of our action to the Indian tribe exercising jurisdiction over the Indian land before and after taking emergency action.
§ 162.025
May decisions under this part be appealed?
Appeals from BIA decisions under this part may be taken under part 2 of this chapter, except for deemed approvals and as otherwise provided in this part. For purposes of appeals from BIA decisions under this part, “interested party” is defined as any person whose own direct economic interest is adversely affected by an action or decision. Our decision to disapprove a lease may be appealed only by an Indian landowner. Our decision to disapprove any other lease document may be appealed only by the Indian landowners or the lessee.
§ 162.026
Who can answer questions about leasing?
An Indian landowner or prospective lessee may contact the local BIA realty office (or of any tribe acting on behalf of BIA under § 162.018) with jurisdiction over the land for answers to questions about the leasing process.
§ 162.027
What documentation may BIA require in approving, administering, and enforcing leases?
(a) We may require that the parties provide any pertinent environmental and technical records, reports, and other information (e.g., records of lease payments), related to approval of lease documents and enforcement of leases.
(b) We will adopt environmental assessments and environmental impact statements prepared by another Federal agency, Indian tribe, entity, or person under 43 CFR 46.320 and 42 CFR 1506.3, including those prepared under 25 U.S.C. 4115 and 25 CFR part 1000, but may require a supplement. We will use any reasonable evidence that another Federal agency has accepted the environmental report, including but not limited to, letters of approval or acceptance.
(c) Upon our request, the parties must make appropriate records, reports, or information available for our inspection and duplication. We will keep confidential any information that is marked confidential or proprietary and will exempt it from public release to the extent allowed by law and in accordance with 43 CFR part 2. We may, at our discretion, treat a lessee's failure to cooperate with such request, provide data, or grant access to information or records as a lease violation.
§ 162.028
How may an Indian tribe obtain information about leases on its land?
Upon request of the Indian tribe with jurisdiction, BIA will promptly provide information on the status of leases on tribal land, without requiring a Freedom of Information Act request.
§ 162.029
How does BIA provide notice to the parties to a lease?
(a) When this part requires us to notify the parties of the status of our review of a lease document (including but not limited to, providing notice to the parties of the date of receipt of a lease document, informing the parties of the need for additional review time, and informing the parties that a lease proposal package is not complete):
(1) For leases of tribal land, we will notify the lessee and the tribe by mail; and
(2) For leases of individually owned Indian land, we will notify the lessee by mail and, where feasible, the individual Indian landowners either by constructive notice or by mail.
(b) When this part requires us to notify the parties of our determination to approve or disapprove a lease document, and to provide any right of appeal:
(1) For leases of tribal land, we will notify the lessee and the tribe by mail; and
(2) For leases of individually owned Indian land, we will notify the lessee by mail and the individual Indian landowners either by constructive notice or by mail.

# Subpart B—Agricultural Leases
§ 162.101
What key terms do I need to know for this subpart?
For purposes of this subpart:
Adult
means an individual who is 18 years of age or older.
Agricultural land
means Indian land or Government land suited or used for the production of crops, livestock or other agricultural products, or Indian land suited or used for a business that supports the surrounding agricultural community.
Agricultural lease
means a lease of agricultural land for farming and/or grazing purposes.
AIARMA
means the American Indian Agricultural Resources Management Act of December 3, 1993 (107 Stat. 2011, 25 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
), as amended on November 2, 1994 (108 Stat. 4572).
Assignment
means an agreement between a tenant and an assignee, whereby the assignee acquires all of the tenant's rights, and assumes all of the tenant's obligations, under a lease.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior and any tribe acting on behalf of BIA under § 162.109 of this part.
Bond
means security for the performance of certain lease obligations, as furnished by the tenant, or a guaranty of such performance as furnished by a third-party surety.
Day
means a calendar day.
Emancipated minor
means a person under 18 years of age who is married or who is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be legally able to care for himself or herself.
Fair annual rental
means the amount of rental income that a leased tract of Indian land would most probably command in an open and competitive market.
Fee interest
means an interest in land that is owned in unrestricted fee status, and is thus freely alienable by the fee owner.
Fractionated tract
means a tract of Indian land owned in common by Indian landowners and/or fee owners holding undivided interests therein.
Government land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the surface estate is owned by the United States and administered by BIA, not including tribal land that has been reserved for administrative purposes.
Immediate family
means a spouse, brother, sister, lineal ancestor, lineal descendant, or member of the household of an individual Indian landowner.
Indian land
means any tract in which any interest in the surface estate is owned by a tribe or individual Indian in trust or restricted status.
Indian landowner
means a tribe or individual Indian who owns an interest in Indian land in trust or restricted status.
Individually-owned land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the
surface estate is owned by an individual Indian in trust or restricted status.
Interest,
when used with respect to Indian land, means an ownership right to the surface estate of Indian land that is unlimited or uncertain in duration, including a life estate.
Lease
means a written agreement between Indian landowners and a tenant or lessee, whereby the tenant or lessee is granted a right to possession of Indian land, for a specified purpose and duration. Unless otherwise provided, the use of this term will also include permits, as appropriate.
Lessee
means tenant, as defined in this section.
Life estate
means an interest in Indian land that is limited, in duration, to the life of the life tenant holding the interest, or the life of some other person.
Majority interest
means more than 50% of the trust or restricted interests in a tract of Indian land.
Minor
means an individual who is less than 18 years of age.
Mortgage
means a mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument that pledges a tenant's leasehold interest as security for a debt or other obligation owed by the tenant to a lender or other mortgagee.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. § 4321,
et seq.
)
Non compos mentis
means a person who has been legally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be of unsound mind or incapable of managing his or her own affairs.
Permit
means a written agreement between Indian landowners and the applicant for the permit, also referred to as a permittee, whereby the permittee is granted a revocable privilege to use Indian land or Government land, for a specified purpose.
Remainder
means an interest in Indian land that is created at the same time as a life estate, for the use and enjoyment of its owner after the life estate terminates.
Restricted land or restricted status
means land the title to which is held by an individual Indian or a tribe and which can only be alienated or encumbered by the owner with the approval of the Secretary because of limitations contained in the conveyance instrument pursuant to federal law.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative.
Sublease
means a written agreement by which the tenant grants to an individual or entity a right to possession no greater than that held by the tenant under the lease.
Surety
means one who guarantees the performance of another.
Tenant
means a person or entity who has acquired a legal right of possession to Indian land by a lease or permit under this part.
Trespass means an unauthorized possession, occupancy or use of Indian land.
Tribal land
means the surface estate of land or any interest therein held by the United States in trust for a tribe, band, community, group or pueblo of Indians, and land that is held by a tribe, band, community, group or pueblo of Indians, subject to federal restrictions against alienation or encumbrance, and includes such land reserved for BIA administrative purposes when it is not immediately needed for such purposes. The term also includes lands held by the United States in trust for an Indian corporation chartered under section 17 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. § 476).
Tribal laws
means the body of law that governs land and activities under the jurisdiction of a tribe, including ordinances and other enactments by the tribe, tribal court rulings, and tribal common law.
Trust land
means any tract, or interest therein, that the United States holds in trust status for the benefit of a tribe or individual Indian.
Undivided interest
means a fractional share in the surface estate of Indian land, where the surface estate is owned in common with other Indian landowners or fee owners.
Us/We/Our
means the Secretary or BIA and any tribe acting on behalf of the Secretary or BIA under § 162.110 of this part.
USPAP
means the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, as promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation
to establish requirements and procedures for professional real property appraisal practice.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012]
§ 162.105
Can tracts with different Indian landowners be unitized for agricultural leasing purposes?
(a) An agricultural lease negotiated by Indian landowners may cover more than one tract of Indian land, but the minimum consent requirements for leases granted by Indian landowners under subparts B through D of this part will apply to each tract separately. We may combine multiple tracts into a unit for leases negotiated or advertised by us, if we determine that unitization is in the Indian landowners' best interests and consistent with the efficient administration of the land.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in the agricultural lease, the rent or other consideration derived from a unitized agricultural lease will be distributed based on the size of each landowner's interest in proportion to the acreage within the entire unit.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012; 78 FR 19100, Mar. 29, 2013]
§ 162.106
What will BIA do if possession is taken without an approved agricultural lease or other proper authorization?
(a) If an agricultural lease is required, and possession is taken without an agricultural lease by a party other than an Indian landowner of the tract, we will treat the unauthorized use as a trespass. Unless we have reason to believe that the party in possession is engaged in negotiations with the Indian landowners to obtain an agricultural lease, we will take action to recover possession on behalf of the Indian landowners, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law.
(b) Where a trespass involves Indian agricultural land, we will also assess civil penalties and costs under part 166, subpart I, of this chapter.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012; 78 FR 19100, Mar. 29, 2013]
§ 162.107
What are BIA's objectives in granting or approving agricultural leases?
We will assist Indian landowners in leasing their land for agricultural purposes. For the purposes of §§ 162.102 through 162.256:
(a) We will assist Indian landowners in leasing their land, either through negotiations or advertisement. In reviewing a negotiated lease for approval, we will defer to the landowners' determination that the lease is in their best interest, to the maximum extent possible. In granting a lease on the landowners' behalf, we will obtain a fair annual rental and attempt to ensure (through proper notice) that the use of the land is consistent with the landowners' wishes. We will also recognize the rights of Indian landowners to use their own land, so long as their Indian co-owners are in agreement and the value of the land is preserved.
(b) We will recognize the governing authority of the tribe having jurisdiction over the land to be leased, preparing and advertising leases in accordance with applicable tribal laws and policies. We will promote tribal control and self-determination over tribal land and other land under the tribe's jurisdiction, through contracts and self-governance compacts entered into under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. § 450f
et seq.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012]
§ 162.108
What are BIA's responsibilities in administering and enforcing agricultural leases?
(a) We will ensure that tenants meet their payment obligations to Indian landowners, through the collection of rent on behalf of the landowners and the prompt initiation of appropriate collection and enforcement actions. We will also assist landowners in the enforcement of payment obligations that run directly to them, and in the exercise of any negotiated remedies that apply in addition to specific remedies made available to us under these or other regulations.
(b) We will ensure that tenants comply with the operating requirements in
their agricultural leases, through appropriate inspections and enforcement actions as needed to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and respond to concerns expressed by them. We will take immediate action to recover possession from trespassers operating without an agricultural lease, and take other emergency action as needed to preserve the value of the land.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012]
§ 162.109
What laws, other than these regulations, will apply to agricultural leases granted or approved under this part?
(a) Agricultural leases granted or approved under this part will be subject to federal laws of general applicability and any specific federal statutory requirements that are not incorporated in these regulations.
(b) Tribal laws generally apply to land under the jurisdiction of the tribe enacting such laws, except to the extent that those tribal laws are inconsistent with these regulations or other applicable federal law. These regulations may be superseded or modified by tribal laws, however, so long as:
(1) The tribal laws are consistent with the enacting tribe's governing documents;
(2) The tribe has notified us of the superseding or modifying effect of the tribal laws;
(3) The superseding or modifying of the regulation would not violate a federal statute or judicial decision, or conflict with our general trust responsibility under federal law; and
(4) The superseding or modifying of the regulation applies only to tribal land.
(c) State law may apply to agricultural lease disputes or define the remedies available to the Indian landowners in the event of an agricultural lease violation by the tenant, if the agricultural lease so provides and the Indian landowners have expressly agreed to the application of state law.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012]
§ 162.110
Can these regulations be administered by tribes, on the Secretary's or on BIA's behalf?
Except insofar as these regulations provide for the granting, approval, or enforcement of agricultural leases and permits, the provisions in these regulations that authorize or require us to take certain actions will extend to any tribe or tribal organization that is administering specific programs or providing specific services under a contract or self-governance compact entered into under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. § 450f
et seq.
).
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012]
§ 162.111
Who owns the records associated with this subpart?
(a) Records associated with this subpart are the property of the United States if they:
(1) Are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of a federal trust function under 25 U.S.C. § 450f
et seq.,
including the operation of a trust program; and
(2) Evidence the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities undertaken in the performance of a federal trust function under this part.
(b) Records associated with this subpart not covered by paragraph (a) of this section that are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this subpart are the property of the tribe.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012]
§ 162.112
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
(a) Any organization, including tribes and tribal organizations, that have records identified in § 162.111(a) must preserve the records in accordance with approved Departmental records retention procedures under the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. Chapters 29, 31 and 33. These records and related records management practices and safeguards required under the Federal Records Act are subject to inspection
by the Secretary and the Archivist of the United States.
(b) A tribe or tribal organization should preserve the records identified in § 162.111(b) for the period of time authorized by the Archivist of the United States for similar Department of the Interior records in accordance with 44 U.S.C. Chapter 33. If a tribe or tribal organization does not preserve records associated with its conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part, it may prevent the tribe or tribal organization from being able to adequately document essential transactions or furnish information necessary to protect its legal and financial rights or those of persons directly affected by its activities.
§ 162.113
May decisions under this subpart be appealed?
Yes. Except where otherwise provided in this subpart, appeals from decisions by the BIA under this subpart may be taken pursuant to 25 CFR subpart 2.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012]

# General Provisions
§ 162.200
What types of leases are covered by this subpart?
The regulations in this subpart apply to agricultural leases, as defined in this part. The regulations in this subpart may also apply to business leases on agricultural land, where appropriate.
§ 162.201
Must agricultural land be managed in accordance with a tribe's agricultural resource management plan?
(a) Agricultural land under the jurisdiction of a tribe must be managed in accordance with the goals and objectives in any agricultural resource management plan developed by the tribe, or by us in close consultation with the tribe, under AIARMA.
(b) A ten-year agricultural resource management and monitoring plan must be developed through public meetings and completed within three years of the initiation of the planning activity. Such a plan must be developed through public meetings, and be based on the public meeting records and existing survey documents, reports, and other research from federal agencies, tribal community colleges, and land grant universities. When completed, the plan must:
(1) Determine available agricultural resources;
(2) Identify specific tribal agricultural resource goals and objectives;
(3) Establish management objectives for the resources;
(4) Define critical values of the Indian tribe and its members and identify holistic management objectives; and
(5) Identify actions to be taken to reach established objectives.
(c) Where the regulations in this subpart are inconsistent with a tribe's agricultural resource management plan, we may waive the regulations under part 1 of this title, so long as the waiver does not violate a federal statute or judicial decision or conflict with our general trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 162.202
How will tribal laws be enforced on agricultural land?
(a) Unless prohibited by federal law, we will recognize and comply with tribal laws regulating activities on agricultural land, including tribal laws relating to land use, environmental protection, and historic or cultural preservation.
(b) While the tribe is primarily responsible for enforcing tribal laws pertaining to agricultural land, we will:
(1) Assist in the enforcement of tribal laws;
(2) Provide notice of tribal laws to persons or entities undertaking activities on agricultural land, under § 162.204(c) of this subpart; and
(3) Require appropriate federal officials to appear in tribal forums when requested by the tribe, so long as such an appearance would not:
(i) Be inconsistent with the restrictions on employee testimony set forth at 43 CFR Part 2, Subpart E;
(ii) Constitute a waiver of the sovereign immunity of the United States; or
(iii) Authorize or result in a review of our actions by a tribal court.
(c) Where the regulations in this subpart are inconsistent with a tribal law,
but such regulations cannot be superseded or modified by the tribal law under § 162.109 of this part, we may waive the regulations under part 1 of this chapter, so long as the waiver does not violate a federal statute or judicial decision or conflict with our general trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 162.203
When can the regulations in this subpart be superseded or modified by tribal laws and leasing policies?
(a) The regulations in this subpart may be superseded or modified by tribal laws, under the circumstances described in § 162.109(b) of this part.
(b) When specifically authorized by an appropriate tribal resolution establishing a general policy for the leasing of tribal and individually-owned agricultural land, we will:
(1) Waive the general prohibition against tenant preferences in leases advertised for bid under § 162.212 of this subpart, by allowing prospective Indian tenants to match the highest responsible bid (unless the tribal leasing policy specifies some other manner in which the preference must be afforded);
(2) Waive the requirement that a tenant post a bond under § 162.234 of this subpart;
(3) Modify the requirement that a tenant post a bond in a form described in § 162.235 of this subpart;
(4) Approve leases of tribal land at rates established by the tribe, as provided in § 162.222(b) of this subpart.
(c) When specifically authorized by an appropriate tribal resolution establishing a general policy for the leasing of “highly fractionated undivided heirship lands” (as defined in the tribal leasing policy), we may waive or modify the three-month notice requirement in § 162.209(b) of this subpart, so long as:
(1) The tribal law or leasing policy adopts an alternative plan for providing notice to Indian landowners, before an agricultural lease is granted by us on their behalf; and
(2) A waiver or modification of the three-month notice requirement is needed to prevent waste, reduce idle land acreage, and ensure lease income to the Indian landowners.
(d) Tribal leasing policies of the type described in paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section will not apply to individually-owned land that has been made exempt from such laws or policies under § 162.205 of this subpart.
§ 162.204
Must notice of applicable tribal laws and leasing policies be provided?
(a) A tribe must provide us with an official copy of any tribal law or leasing policy that supersedes or modifies these regulations under §§ 162.109 or 162.203 of this part. If the tribe has not already done so, we will provide notice of such a tribal law or leasing policy to affected Indian landowners and persons or entities undertaking activities on agricultural land. Such notice will be provided in the manner described in paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section.
(b) We will provide notice to Indian landowners, as to the superseding or modifying effect of any tribal leasing policy and their right to exempt their land from such a policy. Such notice will be provided by:
(1) Written notice included in a notice of our intent to lease the land, issued under § 162.209(b) of this subpart; or
(2) Public notice posted at the tribal community building or the United States Post Office, or published in the local newspaper that serves the area in which the Indian owners' land is located, at the time the tribal leasing policy is adopted.
(c) We will provide notice to persons or entities undertaking activities on agricultural land, as to the general applicability of tribal laws and the superseding or modifying effect of particular tribal laws and leasing policies. Such notice will be provided by:
(1) Written notice included in advertisements for lease, issued under § 162.212 of this subpart; or
(2) Public notice posted at the tribal community building or the United States Post Office, or published in a local newspaper of general circulation, at the time the tribal law is enacted or the leasing policy adopted.
§ 162.205
Can individual Indian landowners exempt their agricultural land from certain tribal leasing policies?
(a) Individual Indian landowners may exempt their agricultural land from the application of a tribal leasing policy of a type described in § 162.203(b) through (c) of this subpart, if the Indian owners of at least 50% of the trust or restricted interests in the land submit a written objection to us before a lease is granted or approved.
(b) Upon our receipt of a written objection from the Indian landowners that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, we will notify the tribe that the owners' land has been exempted from a specific tribal leasing policy. If the exempted land is part of a unitized lease tract, such land will be removed from the unit and leased separately, if appropriate.
(c) The procedures described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will also apply to withdrawing an approved exemption.

# How to Obtain a Lease
§ 162.206
Can the terms of an agricultural lease be negotiated with the Indian landowners?
An agricultural lease may be obtained through negotiation. We will assist prospective tenants in contacting the Indian landowners or their representatives for the purpose of negotiating a lease, and we will assist the landowners in those negotiations upon request.
§ 162.207
When can the Indian landowners grant an agricultural lease?
(a) Tribes grant leases of tribally-owned agricultural land, including any tribally-owned undivided interest(s) in a fractionated tract, subject to our approval. Where tribal land is subject to a land assignment made to a tribal member or some other individual under tribal law or custom, the individual and the tribe must both grant the lease, subject to our approval.
(b) Adult Indian owners, or emancipated minors, may grant agricultural leases of their land, including undivided interests in fractionated tracts, subject to our approval.
(c) An agricultural lease of a fractionated tract may be granted by the owners of a majority interest in the tract, subject to our approval. Although prior notice to non-consenting individual Indian landowners is generally not needed prior to our approval of such a lease, a right of first refusal must be offered to any non-consenting Indian landowner who is using the entire lease tract at the time the lease is entered into by the owners of a majority interest. Where the owners of a majority interest grant such a lease on behalf of all of the Indian owners of a fractionated tract, the non-consenting Indian landowners must receive a fair annual rental.
(d) As part of the negotiation of a lease, Indian landowners may advertise their land to identify potential tenants with whom to negotiate.
§ 162.208
Who can represent the Indian landowners in negotiating or granting an agricultural lease?
The following individuals or entities may represent an individual Indian landowner:
(a) An adult with custody acting on behalf of his or her minor children;
(b) A guardian, conservator, or other fiduciary appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to act on behalf of an individual Indian landowner;
(c) An adult or legal entity who has been given a written power of attorney that:
(1) Meets all of the formal requirements of any applicable tribal or state law;
(2) Identifies the attorney-in-fact and the land to be leased; and
(3) Describes the scope of the power granted and any limits thereon.
§ 162.209
When can BIA grant an agricultural lease on behalf of an Indian landowner?
(a) We may grant an agricultural lease on behalf of:
(1) Individuals who are found to be non compos mentis by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(2) Orphaned minors;
(3) The undetermined heirs and devisees of deceased Indian owners;
(4) Individuals who have given us a written power of attorney to lease their land; and
(5) Individuals whose whereabouts are unknown to us, after reasonable attempts are made to locate such individuals; and
(6) The individual Indian landowners of fractionated Indian land, when necessary to protect the interests of the individual Indian landowners.
(b) We may grant an agricultural lease on behalf of all of the individual Indian owners of a fractionated tract, where:
(1) We have provided the Indian landowners with written notice of our intent to grant a lease on their behalf, but the Indian landowners are unable to agree upon a lease during a three-month negotiation period immediately following such notice, or any other notice period established by a tribe under § 162.203(c) of this subpart; and
(2) The land is not being used by an Indian landowner under § 162.104(b) of this part.
§ 162.210
When can BIA grant a permit covering agricultural land?
(a) We may grant a permit covering agricultural land in the same manner as we would grant an agricultural lease under § 162.209 of this part. We may also grant a permit on behalf of individual Indian landowners, without prior notice, if it is impractical to provide notice to the owners and no substantial injury to the land will occur.
(b) We may grant a permit covering agricultural land, but not an agricultural lease, on government land.
(c) We will not grant a permit on tribal agricultural land, but a tribe may grant a permit, subject to our approval, in the same manner as it would grant a lease under § 162.207(a) of this subpart.
§ 162.211
What type of valuation or evaluation methods will be applied in estimating the fair annual rental of Indian land?
(a) To support the Indian landowners in their negotiations, and to assist in our consideration of whether an agricultural lease is in the Indian landowners' best interest, we must determine the fair annual rental of the land prior to our grant or approval of the lease, unless the land may be leased at less than a fair annual rental under § 162.222(b) through (c) of this subpart.
(b) A fair annual rental may be determined by competitive bidding, appraisal, or any other appropriate valuation method. Where an appraisal or other valuation is needed to determine the fair annual rental, the appraisal or valuation must be prepared in accordance with USPAP.
§ 162.212
When will the BIA advertise Indian land for agricultural leases?
(a) We will generally advertise Indian land for agricultural leasing:
(1) At the request of the Indian landowners; or
(2) Before we grant a lease under § 162.209(b) of this subpart.
(b) Advertisements will provide prospective tenants with notice of any superseding tribal laws and leasing policies that have been made applicable to the land under §§ 162.109 and 162.203 of this part, along with certain standard terms and conditions to be included in the lease. Advertisements will prohibit tenant preferences, and bidders at lease sales will not be afforded any preference, unless a preference in favor of individual Indians is required by a superseding tribal law or leasing policy.
(c) Advertisements will require sealed bids, and they may also provide for further competitive bidding among the prospective tenants at the conclusion of the bid opening. Competitive bidding should be supported, at a minimum, by a market study or rent survey that is consistent with USPAP.
§ 162.213
What supporting documents must be provided prior to BIA's grant or approval of an agricultural lease?
(a) If the tenant is a corporation, partnership or other legal entity, it must provide organizational and financial documents, as needed to show that the lease will be enforceable against the tenant and the tenant will be able to perform all of its lease obligations.
(b) Where a bond is required under § 162.234 of this subpart, the bond must be furnished before we grant or approve the lease.
(c) The tenant must provide environmental and archaeological reports, surveys, and site assessments, as needed
to document compliance with NEPA and other applicable federal and tribal land use requirements.
§ 162.214
How and when will BIA decide whether to approve an agricultural lease?
(a) Before we approve a lease, we must determine in writing that the lease is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:
(1) Review the lease and supporting documents;
(2) Identify potential environmental impacts and ensure compliance with all applicable environmental laws, land use laws, and ordinances (including preparation of the appropriate review documents under NEPA);
(3) Assure ourselves that adequate consideration has been given, as appropriate, to:
(i) The relationship between the use of the leased premises and the use of neighboring lands;
(ii) The height, quality, and safety of any structures or other facilities to be constructed on the leased premises;
(iii) The availability of police and fire protection, utilities, and other essential community services;
(iv) The availability of judicial forums for all criminal and civil matters arising on the leased premises; and
(v) The effect on the environment of the proposed land use.
(4) Require any lease modifications or mitigation measures that are needed to satisfy any requirements of this subpart, or any other federal or tribal land use requirements.
(b) Where an agricultural lease is in a form that has previously been accepted or approved by us, and all of the documents needed to support the findings required by paragraph (a) of this section have been received, we will decide whether to approve the lease within 30 days of the date of our receipt of the lease and supporting documents. If we decide to approve or disapprove a lease, we will notify the parties immediately and advise them of their right to appeal the decision under part 2 of this chapter. Copies of agricultural leases that have been approved will be provided to the tenant, and made available to the Indian landowners upon request.
§ 162.215
When will an agricultural lease be effective?
Unless otherwise provided in the lease, an agricultural lease will be effective on the date on which the lease is approved by us. An agricultural lease may be made effective on some past or future date, by agreement, but such a lease may not be approved more than one year prior to the date on which the lease term is to commence.
§ 162.216
When will a BIA decision to approve an agricultural lease be effective?
Our decision to approve an agricultural lease will be effective immediately, notwithstanding any appeal that may be filed under part 2 of this chapter.
§ 162.217
Must an agricultural lease or permit be recorded?
(a) An agricultural lease or permit must be recorded in our Land Titles and Records Office with jurisdiction over the land. We will record the lease or permit immediately following our approval under this subpart.
(b) Agricultural leases of tribal land that do not require our approval, under § 162.102 of this part, must be recorded by the tribe in our Land Titles and Records Office with jurisdiction over the land.

# Lease Requirements
§ 162.218
Is there a standard agricultural lease form?
Based on the need for flexibility in advertising, negotiating and drafting of appropriate lease terms and conditions, there is no standard agricultural lease form that must be used. We will assist the Indian landowners in drafting lease provisions that conform to the requirements of this part.
§ 162.219
Are there any provisions that must be included in an agricultural lease?
In addition to the other requirements of this part, all agricultural leases must provide that:
(a) The obligations of the tenant and its sureties to the Indian landowners will also be enforceable by the United
States, so long as the land remains in trust or restricted status;
(b) Nothing contained in this lease shall operate to delay or prevent a termination of federal trust responsibilities with respect to the land by the issuance of a fee patent or otherwise during the term of the lease; however, such termination shall not serve to abrogate the lease. The owners of the land and the lessee and his surety or sureties shall be notified of any such change in the status of the land;
(c) There must not be any unlawful conduct, creation of a nuisance, illegal activity, or negligent use or waste of the leased premises; and
(d) The tenant must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and other legal requirements, including tribal laws and leasing policies.
§ 162.220
Are there any formal requirements that must be satisfied in the execution of an agricultural lease?
(a) An agricultural lease must identify the Indian landowners and their respective interests in the leased premises, and the lease must be granted by or on behalf of each of the Indian landowners. One who executes a lease in a representative capacity under § 162.208 of this subpart must identify the owner being represented and the authority under which such action is being taken.
(b) An agricultural lease must be executed by individuals having the necessary capacity and authority to bind the tenant under applicable law.
(c) An agricultural lease must include a citation of the provisions in this subpart that authorize our approval, along with a citation of the formal documents by which such authority has been delegated to the official taking such action.
§ 162.221
How should the land be described in an agricultural lease?
An agricultural lease should describe the leased premises by reference to a public or private survey, if possible. If the land cannot be so described, the lease must include a legal description or other description that is sufficient to identify the leased premises, subject to our approval. Where there are undivided interests owned in fee status, the aggregate portion of trust and restricted interests should be identified in the description of the leased premises.
§ 162.222
How much rent must be paid under an agricultural lease?
(a) An agricultural lease must provide for the payment of a fair annual rental at the beginning of the lease term, unless a lesser amount is permitted under paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. The tenant's rent payments may be:
(1) In fixed amounts; or
(2) Based on a share of the agricultural products generated by the lease, or a percentage of the income to be derived from the sale of such agricultural products.
(b) We will approve an agricultural lease of tribal land at a nominal rent, or at less than a fair annual rental, if such a rent is negotiated or established by the tribe.
(c) We will approve an agricultural lease of individually-owned land at a nominal rent or at less than a fair annual rental, if:
(1) The tenant is a member of the Indian landowner's immediate family, or a co-owner in the lease tract; or
(2) The tenant is a cooperative or other legal entity in which the Indian landowners directly participate in the revenues or profits generated by the lease.
(d) We will grant or approve a lease at less than a fair annual rental, as previously determined by an appraisal or some other appropriate valuation method, if the land is subsequently advertised and the tenant is the highest responsible bidder.
§ 162.223
Must the rent be adjusted under an agricultural lease?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an agricultural lease must provide for one or more rental adjustments if the lease term runs more than five years, unless the lease provides for the payment of:
(1) Less than a fair annual rental, as permitted under § 162.222(b) through (c) of this part; or
(2) A rental based primarily on a share of the agricultural products generated by the lease, or a percentage of the income derived from the sale of agricultural products.
(b) If rental adjustments are required, the lease must specify:
(1) How adjustments are made;
(2) Who makes the adjustments;
(3) When the adjustments are effective; and
(4) How disputes about the adjustments are resolved.
(c) An agricultural lease of tribal land may run for a term of more than five years, without providing for a rental adjustment, if the tribe establishes such a policy under § 162.203(b)(4) and negotiates such a lease.
§ 162.224
When are rent payments due under an agricultural lease?
An agricultural lease must specify the dates on which all rent payments are due. Unless otherwise provided in the lease, rent payments may not be made or accepted more than one year in advance of the due date. Rent payments are due at the time specified in the lease, regardless of whether the tenant receives an advance billing or other notice that a payment is due.
§ 162.225
Will untimely rent payments made under an agricultural lease be subject to interest charges or late payment penalties?
An agricultural lease must specify the rate at which interest will accrue on any rent payment not made by the due date or any other date specified in the lease. A lease may also identify additional late payment penalties that will apply if a rent payment is not made by a specified date. Unless otherwise provided in the lease, such interest charges and late payment penalties will apply in the absence of any specific notice to the tenant from us or the Indian landowners, and the failure to pay such amounts will be treated as a lease violation under § 162.251 of this subpart.
§ 162.226
To whom can rent payments be made under an agricultural lease?
(a) An agricultural lease must specify whether rent payments will be made directly to the Indian landowners or to us on behalf of the Indian landowners. If the lease provides for payment to be made directly to the Indian landowners, the lease must also require that the tenant retain specific documentation evidencing proof of payment, such as canceled checks, cash receipt vouchers, or copies of money orders or cashier's checks, consistent with the provisions of §§ 162.112 and 162.113 of this part.
(b) Rent payments made directly to the Indian landowners must be made to the parties specified in the lease, unless the tenant receives notice of a change of ownership. Unless otherwise provided in the lease, rent payments may not be made payable directly to anyone other than the Indian landowners.
(c) A lease that provides for rent payments to be made directly to the Indian landowners must also provide for such payments to be suspended and the rent thereafter paid to us, rather than directly to the Indian landowners, if:
(1) An Indian landowner dies;
(2) An Indian landowner requests that payment be made to us;
(3) An Indian landowner is found by us to be in need of assistance in managing his/her financial affairs; or
(4) We determine, in our discretion and after consultation with the Indian landowner(s), that direct payment should be discontinued.
§ 162.227
What form of rent payment can be accepted under an agricultural lease?
(a) When rent payments are made directly to the Indian landowners, the form of payment must be acceptable to the Indian landowners.
(b) Payments made to us may be delivered in person or by mail. We will not accept cash, foreign currency, or third-party checks. We will accept:
(1) Personal or business checks drawn on the account of the tenant;
(2) Money orders;
(3) Cashier's checks;
(4) Certified checks; or
(5) Electronic funds transfer payments.
§ 162.228
What other types of payments are required under an agricultural lease?
(a) The tenant may be required to pay additional fees, taxes, and/or assessments associated with the use of the land, as determined by the tribe having jurisdiction over the land. The tenant must pay these amounts to the appropriate tribal official.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in part 171 of this chapter, if the leased premises are within an Indian irrigation project or drainage district, the tenant must pay all operation and maintenance charges that accrue during the lease term. The tenant must pay these amounts to the appropriate official in charge of the irrigation project or drainage district. Failure to make such payments will constitute a violation of the lease under § 162.251.
§ 162.229
How long can the term of an agricultural lease run?
(a) An agricultural lease must provide for a definite lease term, specifying the commencement date. The commencement date of the lease may not be more than one year after the date on which the lease is approved.
(b) The lease term must be reasonable, given the purpose of the lease and the level of investment required. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the maximum term may not exceed ten years, unless a substantial investment in the improvement of the land is required. If such a substantial investment is required, the maximum term may be up to 25 years.
(c) Where all of the trust or restricted interests in a tract are owned by a deceased Indian whose heirs and devisees have not yet been determined, the maximum term may not exceed two years.
(d) An agricultural lease may not provide the tenant with an option to renew, and such a lease may not be renewed or extended by holdover.
§ 162.230
Can an agricultural lease be amended, assigned, sublet, or mortgaged?
(a) An agricultural lease may authorize amendments, assignments, subleases, or mortgages of the leasehold interest, but only with the written consent of the parties to the lease in the same manner the original lease was approved, and our approval. An attempt by the tenant to mortgage the leasehold interest or authorize possession by another party, without the necessary consent and approval, will be treated as a lease violation under § 162.251 of this subpart.
(b) An agricultural lease may authorize us, one or more of the Indian landowners, or a designated representative of the Indian landowners, to consent to an amendment, assignment, sublease, mortgage, or other type of agreement, on the landowners' behalf. A designated landowner or representative may not negotiate or consent to an amendment, assignment, or sublease that would:
(1) Reduce the rentals payable to the other Indian landowners; or
(2) Terminate or modify the term of the lease.
(c) Where the Indian landowners have not designated a representative for the purpose of consenting to an amendment, assignment, sublease, mortgage, or other type of agreement, such consent may be granted by or on behalf of the landowners in the same manner as a new lease, under §§ 162.207 through 162.209 of this subpart.
§ 162.231
How can the land be used under an agricultural lease?
(a) An agricultural lease must describe the authorized uses of the leased premises. Any use of the leased premises for an unauthorized purpose, or a failure by the tenant to maintain continuous operations throughout the lease term, will be treated as a lease violation under § 162.251 of this subpart.
(b) An agricultural lease must require that farming and grazing operations be conducted in accordance with recognized principles of sustained yield management, integrated resource management planning, sound conservation practices, and other community goals as expressed in applicable tribal laws, leasing policies, or agricultural resource management plans. Appropriate stipulations or conservation plans must be developed and incorporated in all agricultural leases.
§ 162.232
Can improvements be made under an agricultural lease?
An agricultural lease must generally describe the type and location of any improvements to be constructed by the lessee. Unless otherwise provided in the lease, any specific plans for the construction of those improvements will not require the consent of the Indian owners or our approval.
§ 162.233
Who will own the improvements made under an agricultural lease?
(a) An agricultural lease may specify who will own any improvements constructed by the tenant, during the lease term. The lease must indicate whether any improvements constructed by the tenant will remain on the leased premises upon the expiration or termination of the lease, providing for the improvements to either:
(1) Remain on the leased premises, in a condition satisfactory to the Indian landowners and us; or
(2) Be removed within a time period specified in the lease, at the tenant's expense, with the leased premises to be restored as close as possible to their condition prior to construction of such improvements.
(b) If the lease allows the tenant to remove the improvements, it must also provide the Indian landowners with an option to waive the removal requirement and take possession of the improvements if they are not removed within the specified time period. If the Indian landowners choose not to exercise this option, we will take appropriate enforcement action to ensure removal at the tenant's expense.
§ 162.234
Must a tenant provide a bond under an agricultural lease?
Unless otherwise provided by a tribe under § 162.203 of this subpart, or waived by us at the request of the owners of a majority interest in an agricultural lease tract, the tenant must provide a bond to secure:
(a) The payment of one year's rental;
(b) The construction of any required improvements;
(c) The performance of any additional lease obligations, including the payment of operation and maintenance charges under § 162.228(b) of this subpart; and
(d) The restoration and reclamation of the leased premises, to their condition at the commencement of the lease term or some other specified condition.
§ 162.235
What form of bond can be accepted under an agricultural lease?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a bond must be deposited with us and made payable only to us, and such a bond may not be modified or withdrawn without our approval. We will only accept a bond in one of the following forms:
(1) Cash;
(2) Negotiable Treasury securities that:
(i) Have a market value at least equal to the bond amount; and
(ii) Are accompanied by a statement granting full authority to us to sell such securities in case of a violation of the terms of the lease.
(3) Certificates of deposit that indicate on their face that our approval is required prior to redemption by any party;
(4) Irrevocable letters of credit issued by federally-insured financial institutions authorized to do business in the United States. A letter of credit must:
(i) Contain a clause that grants us the authority to demand immediate payment if the tenant violates the lease or fails to replace the letter of credit at least 30 days prior to its expiration date;
(ii) Be payable to us;
(iii) Be irrevocable during its term and have an initial expiration date of not less than one year following the date of issuance; and
(iv) Be automatically renewable for a period of not less than one year, unless the issuing financial institution provides us with written notice that it will not be renewed, at least 90 calendar days before the letter of credit's expiration date.
(5) A surety bond issued by a company approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury; or
(6) Any other form of highly liquid, non-volatile security that is easily convertible to cash and for which our approval is required prior to redemption by any party.
(b) A tribe may accept and hold any form of bond described in paragraph (a) of this section, to secure performance under an agricultural lease of tribal land.
§ 162.236
How will a cash bond be administered?
(a) If a cash bond is submitted, we will retain the funds in an account established in the name of the tenant.
(b) We will not pay interest on a cash performance bond.
(c) If the bond is not forfeited under § 162.252(a) of this subpart, we will refund the bond to the tenant upon the expiration or termination of the lease.
§ 162.237
What insurance is required under an agricultural lease?
When necessary to protect the interests of the Indian landowners, an agricultural lease must require that a tenant provide insurance. Such insurance may include property, crop, liability and/or casualty insurance. If insurance is required, it must identify both the Indian landowners and the United States as insured parties, and be sufficient to protect all insurable improvements on the leased premises.
§ 162.238
What indemnities are required under an agricultural lease?
(a) An agricultural lease must require that the tenant indemnify and hold the United States and the Indian landowners harmless from any loss, liability, or damages resulting from the tenant's use or occupation of the leased premises, unless:
(1) The tenant would be prohibited by law from making such an agreement; or (2) The interests of the Indian landowners are adequately protected by insurance.
(b) Unless the tenant would be prohibited by law from making such an agreement, an agricultural lease must specifically require that the tenant indemnify the United States and the Indian landowners against all liabilities or costs relating to the use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials, or the release or discharge of any hazardous materials from the leased premises that occurs during the lease term, regardless of fault.
§ 162.239
How will payment rights and obligations relating to agricultural land be allocated between the Indian landowners and the tenant?
(a) Unless otherwise provided in an agricultural lease, the Indian landowners will be entitled to receive any settlement funds or other payments arising from certain actions that diminish the value of the land or the improvements thereon. Such payments may include (but are not limited to) :
(1) Insurance proceeds;
(2) Trespass damages; and
(3) Condemnation awards.
(b) An agricultural lease may provide for the tenant to assume certain cost-share or other payment obligations that have attached to the land through past farming and grazing operations, so long as those obligations are specified in the lease and considered in any determination of fair annual rental made under this subpart.
§ 162.240
Can an agricultural lease provide for negotiated remedies in the event of a violation?
(a) A lease of tribal agricultural land may provide the tribe with certain negotiated remedies in the event of a lease violation, including the power to terminate the lease. An agricultural lease of individually-owned land may provide the individual Indian landowners with similar remedies, so long as the lease also specifies the manner in which those remedies may be exercised by or on behalf of the landowners.
(b) The negotiated remedies described in paragraph (a) of this section will apply in addition to the cancellation remedy available to us under § 162.252(c) of this subpart. If the lease specifically authorizes us to exercise any negotiated remedies on behalf of the Indian landowners, the exercise of such remedies may substitute for cancellation.
(c) An agricultural lease may provide for lease disputes to be resolved in tribal court or any other court of competent jurisdiction, or through arbitration or some other alternative dispute resolution method. We may not be bound by decisions made in such forums, but we will defer to ongoing proceedings, as appropriate, in deciding
whether to exercise any of the remedies available to us under § 162.252 of this subpart.

# Lease Administration
§ 162.241
Will administrative fees be charged for actions relating to agricultural leases?
(a) We will charge an administrative fee each time we approve an agricultural lease, amendment, assignment, sublease, mortgage, or related document. These fees will be paid by the tenant, assignee, or subtenant, to cover our costs in preparing or processing the documents and administering the lease.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, we will charge administrative fees based on the rent payable under the lease. The fee will be 3% of the annual rent payable, including any percentage-based rent that can be reasonably estimated.
(c) The minimum administrative fee is $10.00 and the maximum administrative fee is $500.00, and any administrative fees that have been paid will be non-refundable. However, we may waive all or part of these administrative fees, in our discretion.
(d) If all or part of the expenses of the work are paid from tribal funds, the tribe may establish an additional or alternate schedule of fees.
§ 162.242
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment to an agricultural lease?
We will approve an agricultural lease amendment if:
(a) The required consents have been obtained from the parties to the lease under § 162.230 and any sureties; and
(b) We find the amendment to be in the best interest of the Indian landowners, under the standards set forth in § 162.213 of this subpart.
§ 162.243
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment or sublease under an agricultural lease?
(a) We will approve an assignment or sublease under an agricultural lease if:
(1) The required consents have been obtained from the parties to the lease under § 162.230 and the tenant's sureties;
(2) The tenant is not in violation of the lease;
(3) The assignee agrees to be bound by, or the subtenant agrees to be subordinated to, the terms of the lease; and
(4) We find no compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian owners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, we will consider whether:
(1) The Indian landowners should receive any income derived by the tenant from the assignment or sublease, under the terms of the lease;
(2) The proposed use by the assignee or subtenant will require an amendment of the lease;
(3) The value of any part of the leased premises not covered by the assignment or sublease would be adversely affected; and
(4) The assignee or subtenant has bonded its performance and provided supporting documents that demonstrate that the lease or sublease will be enforceable against the assignee or subtenant, and that the assignee or subtenant will be able to perform its obligations under the lease or sublease.
§ 162.244
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage under an agricultural lease?
(a) We will approve a leasehold mortgage under an agricultural lease if:
(1) The required consents have been obtained from the parties to the lease under § 162.230 and the tenant's sureties;
(2) The mortgage covers only the tenant's interest in the leased premises, and no unrelated collateral;
(3) The loan being secured by the mortgage will be used only in connection with the development or use of the leased premises, and the mortgage does not secure any unrelated debts owed by the tenant to the mortgagee; and
(4) We find no compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, we will consider whether:
(1) The tenant's ability to comply with the lease would be adversely affected by any new loan obligations;
(2) Any lease provisions would be modified by the mortgage;
(3) The remedies available to us or to the Indian landowners would be limited (beyond any additional notice and cure rights to be afforded to the mortgagee), in the event of a lease violation; and
(4) Any rights of the Indian landowners would be subordinated or adversely affected in the event of a loan default by the tenant.
§ 162.245
When will a BIA decision to approve an amendment, assignment, sublease, or mortgage under an agricultural lease be effective?
Our decision to approve an amendment, assignment, sublease, or mortgage under an agricultural lease will be effective immediately, notwithstanding any appeal that may be filed under part 2 of this chapter. Copies of approved documents will be provided to the party requesting approval, and made available to the Indian landowners upon request.
§ 162.246
Must an amendment, assignment, sublease, or mortgage approved under an agricultural lease be recorded?
An amendment, assignment, sublease, or mortgage approved under an agricultural lease must be recorded in our Land Titles and Records Office that has jurisdiction over the leased premises. We will record the document immediately following our approval under this subpart.

# Lease Enforcement
§ 162.247
Will BIA notify a tenant when a rent payment is due under an agricultural lease?
We may issue bills or invoices to a tenant in advance of the dates on which rent payments are due under an agricultural lease, but the tenant's obligation to make such payments in a timely manner will not be excused if such bills or invoices are not delivered or received.
§ 162.248
What will BIA do if rent payments are not made in the time and manner required by an agricultural lease?
(a) A tenant's failure to pay rent in the time and manner required by an agricultural lease will be a violation of the lease, and a notice of violation will be issued under § 162.251 of this subpart. If the lease requires that rent payments be made to us, we will send the tenant and its sureties a notice of violation within five business days of the date on which the rent payment was due. If the lease provides for payment directly to the Indian landowners, we will send the tenant and its sureties a notice of violation within five business days of the date on which we receive actual notice of non-payment from the landowners.
(b) If a tenant fails to provide adequate proof of payment or cure the violation within the requisite time period described in § 162.251(b) of this subpart, and the amount due is not in dispute, we may immediately take action to recover the amount of the unpaid rent and any associated interest charges or late payment penalties. We may also cancel the lease under § 162.252 of this subpart, or invoke any other remedies available under the lease or applicable law, including collection on any available bond or referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection. An action to recover any unpaid amounts will not be conditioned on the prior cancellation of the lease or any further notice to the tenant, nor will such an action be precluded by a prior cancellation.
(c) Partial payments may be accepted by the Indian landowners or us, but acceptance will not operate as a waiver with respect to any amounts remaining unpaid or any other existing lease violations. Unless otherwise provided in the lease, overpayments may be credited as an advance against future rent payments, or refunded.
(d) If a personal or business check is dishonored, and a rent payment is therefore not made by the due date, the failure to make the payment in a timely manner will be a violation of the lease, and a notice of violation will be issued under § 162.251 of this subpart.
Any payment made to cure such a violation, and any future payments by the same tenant, must be made by one of the alternative payment methods listed in § 162.227(b) of this subpart.
§ 162.249
Will any special fees be assessed on delinquent rent payments due under an agricultural lease?
The following special fees will be assessed if rent is not paid in the time and manner required, in addition to any interest or late payment penalties that must be paid to the Indian landowners under an agricultural lease. The following special fees will be assessed to cover administrative costs incurred by the United States in the collection of the debt:
The tenant will pay * * *
For * * *
(a) $50.00
Administrative fee for dishonored checks.
(b) $15.00
Administrative fee for BIA processing of each notice or demand letter.
(c) 18% of balance due
Administrative fee charged by Treasury following referral for collection of delinquent debt.
§ 162.250
How will BIA determine whether the activities of a tenant under an agricultural lease are in compliance with the terms of the lease?
(a) Unless an agricultural lease provides otherwise, we may enter the leased premises at any reasonable time, without prior notice, to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and ensure that the tenant is in compliance with the operating requirements of the lease.
(b) If an Indian landowner notifies us that a specific lease violation has occurred, we will initiate an appropriate investigation within five business days of that notification.
§ 162.251
What will BIA do in the event of a violation under an agricultural lease?
(a) If we determine that an agricultural lease has been violated, we will send the tenant and its sureties a notice of violation within five business days of that determination. The notice of violation must be provided by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(b) Within ten business days of the receipt of a notice of violation, the tenant must:
(1) Cure the violation and notify us in writing that the violation has been cured;
(2) Dispute our determination that a violation has occurred and/or explain why we should not cancel the lease; or
(3) Request additional time to cure the violation.
§ 162.252
What will BIA do if a violation of an agricultural lease is not cured within the requisite time period?
(a) If the tenant does not cure a violation of an agricultural lease within the requisite time period, we will consult with the Indian landowners, as appropriate, and determine whether:
(1) The lease should be canceled by us under paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 162.253 through 162.254 of this subpart;
(2) We should invoke any other remedies available to us under the lease, including collecting on any available bond;
(3) The Indian landowners wish to invoke any remedies available to them under the lease; or
(4) The tenant should be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) If we decide to grant a tenant additional time in which to cure a violation, the tenant must proceed diligently to complete the necessary corrective actions within a reasonable or specified time period from the date on which the extension is granted.
(c) If we decide to cancel the lease, we will send the tenant and its sureties a cancellation letter within five business days of that decision. The cancellation letter must be sent to the tenant by certified mail, return receipt requested. We will also provide actual or constructive notice of a cancellation decision to the Indian landowners, as appropriate. The cancellation letter will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) Notify the tenant of the amount of any unpaid rent, interest charges, or late payment penalties due under the lease;
(3) Notify the tenant of its right to appeal under part 2 of this chapter, as modified by § 162.253 of this subpart, including the amount of any appeal bond that must be posted with an appeal of the cancellation decision; and
(4) Order the tenant to vacate the property within 30 days of the date of receipt of the cancellation letter, if an appeal is not filed by that time.
§ 162.253
Will BIA's regulations concerning appeal bonds apply to cancellation decisions involving agricultural leases?
(a) The appeal bond provisions in § 2.5 of part 2 of this chapter will not apply to appeals from lease cancellation decisions made under § 162.252 of this subpart. Instead, when we decide to cancel an agricultural lease, we may require that the tenant post an appeal bond with an appeal of the cancellation decision. The requirement to post an appeal bond will apply in addition to all of the other requirements in part 2 of this chapter.
(b) An appeal bond should be set in an amount necessary to protect the Indian landowners against financial losses that will likely result from the delay caused by an appeal. Appeal bond requirements will not be separately appealable, but may be contested during the appeal of the lease cancellation decision.
§ 162.254
When will a cancellation of an agricultural lease be effective?
A cancellation decision involving an agricultural lease will not be effective until 30 days after the tenant receives a cancellation letter from us. The cancellation decision will remain ineffective if the tenant files an appeal under § 162.253 of this subpart and part 2 of this chapter, unless the decision is made immediately effective under part 2. While a cancellation decision is ineffective, the tenant must continue to pay rent and comply with the other terms of the lease. If an appeal is not filed in accordance with § 162.253 of this subpart and part 2 of this chapter, the cancellation decision will be effective on the 31st day after the tenant receives the cancellation letter from us.
§ 162.255
Can BIA take emergency action if the leased premises are threatened with immediate and significant harm?
If a tenant or any other party causes or threatens to cause immediate and significant harm to the leased premises during the term of an agricultural lease, we will take appropriate emergency action. Emergency action may include trespass proceedings under part 166, subpart I, of this chapter, or judicial action seeking immediate cessation of the activity resulting in or threatening the harm. Reasonable efforts will be made to notify the Indian landowners, either before or after the emergency action is taken.
§ 162.256
What will BIA do if a tenant holds over after the expiration or cancellation of an agricultural lease?
If a tenant remains in possession after the expiration or cancellation of an agricultural lease, we will treat the unauthorized use as a trespass. Unless we have reason to believe that the tenant is engaged in negotiations with the Indian landowners to obtain a new lease, we will take action to recover possession on behalf of the Indian landowners, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law, including the assessment of civil penalties and costs under part 166, subpart I, of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Residential Leases

# Source:
77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Residential Leasing General Provisions
§ 162.301
What types of leases does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart covers both ground leases (undeveloped land) and leases of developed land (together with the permanent improvements thereon) on Indian land, for housing purposes. Leases covered by this subpart would authorize the construction or use of:
(1) A single-family residence; and
(2) Housing for public purposes, which may include office space necessary to administer programs for housing for public purposes.
(b) Leases for other residential development (for example, single-family residential developments and multi-family developments that are not housing for public purposes) are covered under subpart D of this part.
§ 162.302
Is there a model residential lease form?
(a) We will make available one or more model lease forms that satisfy the formal requirements of this part, including, as appropriate, the model tribal lease form jointly developed by BIA, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Veterans' Affairs, and the Department of Agriculture. Use of a model lease form is not mandatory, provided all requirements of this part are met.
(b) If a model lease form prepared by us is not used by the parties to a residential lease, we will assist the Indian landowners, upon their request, in drafting lease provisions or in using tribal lease forms that conform to the requirements of this part.
§ 162.303
Who needs a lease for housing for public purposes?
A TDHE or tribal housing authority must obtain an approved residential lease under this subpart from the Indian landowners if, under the terms of its charter, it is a legal entity independent from the tribe, regardless of whether it is owned and operated by the tribe. A TDHE or tribal housing authority does not need an approved residential lease under this subpart if the tribe has authorized the TDHE's or tribal housing authority's possession through a tribal land assignment.

# Lease Requirements
§ 162.311
How long may the term of a residential lease run?
(a) A residential lease must provide for a definite lease term, state if there is an option to renew, and if so, provide for a definite term for the renewal period.
(1) The maximum term of a lease approved under 25 U.S.C. 4211 may not exceed 50 years or may be month-to-month. The lease may provide for an initial term of less than 50 years with a provision for one or more renewals, so long as the maximum term, including all renewals, does not exceed 50 years.
(2) The maximum term of a lease approved under 25 U.S.C. 415(a) may not exceed 50 years (consisting of an initial term not to exceed 25 years and one renewal not to exceed 25 years), unless a Federal statute provides for a longer maximum term (e.g., 25 U.S.C. 415(a) allows for a maximum term of 99 years for certain tribes), a different initial term, renewal term, or number of renewals.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the lease term, including any renewal, is reasonable. For individually owned Indian land, we will review the lease term, including any renewal, to ensure it is reasonable, given the:
(1) Purpose of the lease;
(2) Type of financing; and
(3) Level of investment.
(c) Unless the lease provides otherwise, a residential lease may not be extended by holdover.
§ 162.312
What must the lease include if it contains an option to renew?
(a) If the lease provides for an option to renew, the lease must specify:
(1) The time and manner in which the option must be exercised or is automatically effective;
(2) That confirmation of the renewal will be submitted to us, unless the lease provides for automatic renewal;
(3) Whether Indian landowner consent to the renewal is required;
(4) That the lessee must provide notice of the renewal to the Indian landowners and any mortgagees;
(5) The additional consideration, if any, that will be due upon the exercise of the option to renew or the start of the renewal term; and
(6) Any other conditions for renewal (e.g., that the lessee not be in violation of the lease at the time of renewal).
(b) We will record any renewal of a lease in the LTRO.
§ 162.313
Are there mandatory provisions that a residential lease must contain?
(a) All residential leases must identify:
(1) The tract or parcel of land being leased;
(2) The purpose of the lease and authorized uses of the leased premises;
(3) The parties to the lease;
(4) The term of the lease;
(5) The ownership of permanent improvements and the responsibility for constructing, operating, maintaining, and managing permanent improvements under § 162.315; and
(6) Payment requirements and late payment charges, including interest.
(b) Where a representative executes a lease on behalf of an Indian landowner or lessee, the lease must identify the landowner or lessee being represented and the authority under which the action is taken.
(c) All residential leases must include the following provisions:
(1) The obligations of the lessee to the Indian landowners are also enforceable by the United States, so long as the land remains in trust or restricted status;
(2) There must not be any unlawful conduct, creation of a nuisance, illegal activity, or negligent use or waste of the leased premises;
(3) The lessee must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and other legal requirements under § 162.014;
(4) If historic properties, archeological resources, human remains, or other cultural items not previously reported are encountered during the course of any activity associated with this lease, all activity in the immediate vicinity of the properties, resources, remains, or items will cease and the lessee will contact BIA and the tribe with jurisdiction to determine how to proceed and appropriate disposition;
(5) BIA has the right, at any reasonable time during the term of the lease and upon reasonable notice in accordance with § 162.364, to enter the leased premises for inspection and to ensure compliance; and
(6) BIA may, at its discretion, treat as a lease violation any failure by the lessee to cooperate with a BIA request to make appropriate records, reports, or information available for BIA inspection and duplication.
(d) Unless the lessee would be prohibited by law from doing so, the lease must also contain the following provisions:
(1) The lessee holds the United States and the Indian landowners harmless from any loss, liability, or damages resulting from the lessee's use or occupation of the leased premises; and
(2) The lessee indemnifies the United States and the Indian landowners against all liabilities or costs relating to use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials, or release or discharge of any hazardous material from the leased premises that occurs during the lease term, regardless of fault, with the exception that the lessee is not required to indemnify the Indian landowners for liability or cost arising from the Indian landowners' negligence or willful misconduct.
(e) We may treat any provision of a lease document that violates Federal law as a violation of the lease.
§ 162.314
May permanent improvements be made under a residential lease?
(a) The lessee may construct permanent improvements under a residential lease if the residential lease authorizes the construction and generally describes the type and location of the permanent improvements to be constructed during the lease term.
(b) The lessee must provide reasonable notice to the Indian landowners of the construction of any permanent improvements not generally described in the lease.
§ 162.315
How must a residential lease address ownership of permanent improvements?
(a) A residential lease must specify who will own any permanent improvements the lessee constructs during the lease term. In addition, the lease must indicate whether each specific permanent improvement the lessee constructs will:
(1) Remain on the leased premises upon expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease, in a condition satisfactory to the Indian landowners and become the property of the Indian landowners;
(2) Be removed within a time period specified in the lease, at the lessee's expense, with the leased premises to be restored as closely as possible to their condition before construction of the permanent improvements; or
(3) Be disposed of by other specified means.
(b) A lease that requires the lessee to remove the permanent improvements must also provide the Indian landowners with an option to take possession of and title to the permanent improvements if the improvements are not removed within the specified time period.
§ 162.316
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a residential lease?
We may take appropriate enforcement action to ensure removal of the permanent improvements and restoration of the premises at the lessee's expense:
(a) In consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land; and
(b) Before or after expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease.
§ 162.317
How must a residential lease describe the land?
(a) A residential lease must describe the leased premises by reference to a public or private survey, if possible. If the land cannot be so described, the lease must include one or more of the following:
(1) A legal description;
(2) A survey-grade global positioning system description; or
(3) Another description prepared by a registered land surveyor that is sufficient to identify the leased premises.
(b) If the tract is fractionated, we will identify the undivided trust or restricted interests in the leased premises.

# Rental Requirements
§ 162.320
How much rent must be paid under a residential lease of tribal land?
(a) A residential lease of tribal land may allow for any payment amount negotiated by the tribe, and we will defer to the tribe and not require a valuation, if:
(1) The lease is for housing for public purposes; or
(2) The tribe submits a signed certification or tribal authorization stating that it has determined the negotiated amount to be in its best interest.
(b) The tribe may request, in writing, that we determine fair market rental, in which case we will use a valuation in accordance with § 162.322. After providing the tribe with the fair market rental, we will defer to a tribe's decision to allow for any payment amount negotiated by the tribe.
(c) If the conditions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not met, we will require that the lease provide for fair market rental based on a valuation in accordance with § 162.322.
§ 162.321
How much rent must be paid under a residential lease of individually owned Indian land?
(a) A residential lease of individually owned Indian land must require payment of not less than fair market rental except that we may approve a lease of individually owned Indian land that provides for the payment of nominal rent, or less than a fair market rental, if:
(1) One hundred percent of the Indian landowners execute a written waiver of the right to receive fair market rental; or
(2) We waive the requirement under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) We will require a valuation in accordance with § 162.322, unless:
(1) One hundred percent of the Indian landowners submit to us a written request to waive the valuation requirement; or
(2) We waive the requirement under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) If the owners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 consent to a residential lease on behalf of all the Indian landowners of a
fractionated tract, the lease must provide that the non-consenting Indian landowners (and those on whose behalf we have consented) receive fair market rental, as determined by a valuation, unless we waive the requirement because:
(1) The lessee is a co-owner who, as of January 4, 2013, has been residing on the tract for at least 7 years, and no other co-owner raises an objection to BIA by July 3, 2013 to the lessee's continued possession of the tract; or
(2) The tribe or lessee will construct infrastructure improvements on, or serving, the leased premises, and we determine it is in the best interest of all the landowners.
§ 162.322
How will BIA determine fair market rental for a residential lease?
(a) We will use a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method to determine the fair market rental for residential leases of individually owned Indian land. We will also do this, at the request of the tribe, for tribal land.
(b) We will either:
(1) Prepare, or have prepared, a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method; or
(2) Use an approved market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method from the Indian landowners or lessee.
(c) We will use or approve a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method for use only if it:
(1) Has been prepared in accordance with USPAP or a valuation method developed by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 2214; and
(2) Complies with Department policies regarding appraisals, including third-party appraisals.
§ 162.323
When are rental payments due under a residential lease?
(a) A residential lease must specify the dates on which payments are due.
(b) Unless the lease provides otherwise, payments may not be made or accepted more than one year in advance of the due date.
(c) Payments are due at the time specified in the lease, regardless of whether the lessee receives an advance billing or other notice that a payment is due.
§ 162.324
Must a residential lease specify who receives rental payments?
(a) A residential lease must specify whether the lessee will make payments directly to the Indian landowners (direct pay) or to us on their behalf.
(b) The lessee may make payments directly to the Indian landowners if:
(1) The Indian landowners' trust accounts are unencumbered;
(2) There are 10 or fewer beneficial owners; and
(3) One hundred percent of the beneficial owners (including those on whose behalf we have consented) agree to receive payment directly from the lessee at the start of the lease.
(c) If the lease provides that the lessee will directly pay the Indian landowners, then:
(1) The lease must include provisions for proof of payment upon our request.
(2) When we consent on behalf of an Indian landowner, the lessee must make payment to us on behalf of that landowner.
(3) The lessee must send direct payments to the parties and addresses specified in the lease, unless the lessee receives notice of a change of ownership or address.
(4) Unless the lease provides otherwise, payments may not be made payable directly to anyone other than the Indian landowners.
(5) Direct payments must continue through the duration of the lease, except that:
(i) The lessee must make all Indian landowners' payments to us if 100 percent of the Indian landowners agree to suspend direct pay and provide us with documentation of their agreement; and
(ii) The lessee must make an individual Indian landowner's payment to us if that individual Indian landowner who dies, is declared non compos mentis, owes a debt resulting in a trust account encumbrance, or his or her whereabouts become unknown.
§ 162.325
What form of payment is acceptable under a residential lease?
(a) When payments are made directly to Indian landowners, the form of payment must be acceptable to the Indian landowners.
(b) When payments are made to us, our preferred method of payment is electronic funds transfer payments. We will also accept:
(1) Money orders;
(2) Personal checks;
(3) Certified checks; or
(4) Cashier's checks.
(c) We will not accept cash or foreign currency.
(d) We will accept third-party checks only from financial institutions or Federal agencies.
§ 162.326
May a residential lease provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
(a) A lease may provide for the following, subject to the conditions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section:
(1) Alternative forms of rental, including, but not limited to in-kind consideration; or
(2) Varying types of compensation at specific stages during the life of the lease.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the compensation under paragraph (a) of this section is in its best interest, if either:
(1) The lease is for housing for public purposes; or
(2) The tribe submits a signed certification or tribal authorization stating that it has determined the compensation under paragraph (a) of this section to be in its best interest.
(c) For individually owned Indian land, we may approve a lease that provides for compensation under paragraph (a) of this section if we determine that it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners.
§ 162.327
Will BIA notify a lessee when a payment is due under a residential lease?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we may issue invoices to a lessee in advance of the dates on which payments are due under a residential lease. The lessee's obligation to make these payments in a timely manner will not be excused if invoices are not issued, delivered, or received.
§ 162.328
Must a residential lease provide for rental reviews or adjustments?
(a) For a residential lease of tribal land, unless the lease provides otherwise, no periodic review of the adequacy of rent or rental adjustment is required if:
(1) The tribe states in a tribal certification or authorization that it has determined that not having rental reviews and/or adjustments is in its best interest; or
(2) The lease is for housing for public purposes.
(b) For a residential lease of individually Indian owned land, unless the lease provides otherwise, no periodic review of the adequacy of rent or rental adjustment is required if:
(1) The lease is for housing for public purposes;
(2) The term of the lease is 5 years or less;
(3) The lease provides for automatic rental adjustments; or
(4) We determine it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners not to require a review or automatic adjustment based on circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) The lease provides for payment of less than fair market rental; or
(ii) The lease provides for most or all rent to be paid during the first 5 years of the lease term or before the date the review would be conducted.
(c) If the conditions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not met, a review of the adequacy of rent must occur at least every fifth year, in the manner specified in the lease. The lease must specify:
(1) When adjustments take effect;
(2) Who can make adjustments;
(3) What the adjustments are based on; and
(4) How to resolve disputes arising from the adjustments.
(d) When a review results in the need for adjustment of rent, the Indian landowners must consent to the adjustment in accordance with § 162.012, unless the lease provides otherwise.
§ 162.329
What other types of payments are required under a residential lease?
(a) The lessee may be required to pay additional fees, taxes, and assessments associated with the use of the land, as determined by entities having jurisdiction, except as provided in § 162.017. The lessee must pay these amounts to the appropriate office.
(b) If the leased premises are within an Indian irrigation project or drainage district, except as otherwise provided in part 171 of this chapter, the lessee must pay all operation and maintenance charges that accrue during the lease term. The lessee must pay these amounts to the appropriate office in charge of the irrigation project or drainage district. We will treat failure to make these payments as a violation of the lease.

# Bonding and Insurance
§ 162.334
Is a performance bond required for a residential lease document?
We will not require a lessee or assignee to provide a performance bond or alternative form of security for a residential lease document.
§ 162.335
Is insurance required for a residential lease document?
We will not require a lessee or assignee to provide insurance for a residential lease document.
§§ 162.336-162.337
[Reserved]

# Approval
§ 162.338
What documents are required for BIA approval of a residential lease?
A lessee or the Indian landowners must submit the following documents to us to obtain BIA approval of a residential lease:
(a) A lease executed by the Indian landowners and the lessee that meets the requirements of this part;
(b) For tribal land, a tribal authorization for the lease and, if applicable, meeting the requirements of §§ 162.320(a), 162.326(b), and 162.328(a), or a separate signed certification meeting the requirements of §§ 162.320(a), 162.326(b), and 162.328(a);
(c) A valuation, if required under § 162.320 or § 162.321;
(d) A statement from the appropriate tribal authority that the proposed use is in conformance with applicable tribal law, if required by the tribe;
(e) Reports, surveys, and site assessments as needed to facilitate compliance with applicable Federal and tribal environmental and land use requirements, including any documentation prepared under § 162.027(b);
(f) A preliminary site plan identifying the proposed location of residential development, roads, and utilities, if applicable, unless the lease is for housing for public purposes;
(g) A legal description of the land under § 162.317;
(h) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, information to assist us in our evaluation of the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(i) If the lessee is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or other legal entity, except a tribal entity, information such as organizational documents, certificates, filing records, and resolutions, that demonstrates that:
(1) The representative has authority to execute a lease;
(2) The lease will be enforceable against the lessee; and
(3) The legal entity is in good standing and authorized to conduct business in the jurisdiction where the land is located.
§ 162.339
Will BIA review a proposed residential lease before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we will review the proposed residential lease after negotiation by the parties, before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation and any valuation. Within 10 days of receiving the proposed lease, we will provide an acknowledgement of the terms of the lease and identify any provisions that, based on this acknowledgment review, would justify disapproval of the lease, pending results of the NEPA review and any valuation.
§ 162.340
What is the approval process for a residential lease?
(a) Before we approve a residential lease, we must determine that the lease is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:
(1) Review the lease and supporting documents;
(2) Ensure compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
(3) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, assure ourselves that adequate consideration has been given to the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(4) Require any lease modifications or mitigation measures necessary to satisfy any requirements including any other Federal or tribal land use requirements.
(b) Upon receiving a residential lease package, we will promptly notify the parties whether the package is or is not complete. A complete package includes all the information and supporting documents required under this subpart, including but not limited to, NEPA review documentation and valuation documentation, where applicable.
(1) If the residential lease package is not complete, our letter will identify the missing information or documents required for a complete package. If we do not respond to the submission of a residential lease package, the parties may take action under § 162.363.
(2) If the residential lease package is complete, we will notify the parties of the date of receipt. Within 30 days of the receipt date, we will approve or disapprove the lease or return the package for revision.
(c) If we do not meet the deadlines in this section, then the parties may take action under § 162.363.
(d) We will provide any lease approval or disapproval and the basis for the determination, along with notification of any appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the lease.
(e) Any residential lease issued under the authority of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act, 25 U.S.C 4211(a), whether on tribal land or on individually owned Indian land, must be approved by us and by the affected tribe.
(f) We will provide approved residential leases on tribal land to the lessee and provide a copy to the tribe. We will provide approved residential leases on individually owned Indian land to the lessee, and make copies available to the Indian landowners upon written request.
§ 162.341
How will BIA decide whether to approve a residential lease?
(a) We will approve a residential lease unless:
(1) The required consents have not been obtained from the parties to the lease;
(2) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(3) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the residential lease is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a lease.
§ 162.342
When will a residential lease be effective?
(a) A residential lease will be effective on the date that we approve the lease, even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter.
(b) The lease may specify a date on which the obligations between the parties to a residential lease are triggered. Such date may be before or after the approval date under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 162.343
Must a residential lease document be recorded?
(a) Any residential lease, amendment, assignment, or leasehold mortgage must be recorded in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land. A residential sublease need not be recorded.
(1) We will record the lease or other document immediately following our approval.
(2) When our approval of an assignment is not required, the parties must record the assignment in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land.
(b) The tribe must record lease documents for the following types of leases
in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased lands, even though BIA approval is not required:
(1) Leases of tribal land that a corporate entity leases to a third party under 25 U.S.C. 477; and
(2) Leases of tribal land under a special act of Congress authorizing leases without our approval under certain conditions.
§ 162.344
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a residential lease document?
BIA will not require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a residential lease document.

# Amendments
§ 162.345
May the parties amend a residential lease?
The parties may amend a residential lease by obtaining:
(a) The lessee's signature;
(b) The Indian landowners' consent under the requirements in § 162.346; and
(c) BIA approval of the amendment under §§ 162.347 and 162.348.
§ 162.346
What are the consent requirements for an amendment of a residential lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed amendment.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to an amendment of a residential lease in the same percentages and manner as a new residential lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented if they do not object in writing to the amendment within a specified period of time following Indian landowners' receipt of the amendment and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to an amendment on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consent to an amendment.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed amendment or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the amendment to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for review.
(d) Unless specifically authorized in the lease, a written power of attorney, or a court document, Indian landowners may not be deemed to have consented to, and an Indian landowner's designated representative may not negotiate or consent to, an amendment that would:
(1) Reduce the payment obligations to the Indian landowners;
(2) Increase or decrease the lease area; or
(3) Terminate or change the term of the lease.
§ 162.347
What is the approval process for an amendment of a residential lease?
(a) When we receive an amendment that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. We have 30 days from receipt of the executed amendment, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the amendment. Our determination whether to approve the amendment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not send a determination within 30 days from receipt of the required documents, the amendment is deemed approved to the extent consistent with Federal law. Unless the lease provides otherwise, provisions of the amendment that are inconsistent with Federal law will be severed and unenforceable; all other provisions of the amendment will remain in force.
§ 162.348
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment of a residential lease?
(a) We may disapprove a residential lease amendment only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(5) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the amendment is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an amendment.

# Assignments
§ 162.349
May a lessee assign a residential lease?
(a) A lessee may assign a residential lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.350 and obtaining our approval of the assignment under §§ 162.351 and 162.352 or by meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The lessee may assign the lease without our approval or meeting consent requirements if:
(1) The lease is for housing for public purposes, or the assignee is a leasehold mortgagee or its designee, acquiring the lease either through foreclosure or by conveyance;
(2) The assignee agrees in writing to assume all of the obligations and conditions of the lease; and
(3) The assignee agrees in writing that any transfer of the lease will be in accordance with applicable law under § 162.014.
§ 162.350
What are the consent requirements for an assignment of a residential lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed assignment.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to an assignment of a residential lease in the same percentages and manner as a new residential lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides for assignments without further consent of the Indian landowners or with consent in specified percentages and manner;
(2) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the assignment within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the assignment and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Authorizes one or more of the Indian landowners to consent on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(4) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to an assignment.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed assignment or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the assignment to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
(d) The lessee must obtain the consent of the holders of any mortgages.
§ 162.351
What is the approval process for an assignment of a residential lease?
(a) When we receive an assignment that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. If our approval is required, we have 30 days from receipt of the executed assignment, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the assignment. Our determination whether to approve the assignment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, the lessee or Indian landowners may take appropriate action under § 162.363.
§ 162.352
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a residential lease?
(a) We may disapprove an assignment of a residential lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented, and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The assignee does not agree to be bound by the terms of the lease;
(5) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(6) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section, we may consider whether the value of any part of the leased premises not covered by the assignment would be adversely affected.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the assignment is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an assignment.

# Subleases
§ 162.353
May a lessee sublease a residential lease?
(a) A lessee may sublease a residential lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.354 and obtaining our approval of the sublease under §§ 162.355 and 162.356, or by meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The lessee may sublease without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval of the sublease, if:
(1) The lease provides for subleasing without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval; and
(2) The sublease does not relieve the lessee/sublessor of any liability.
§ 162.354
What are the consent requirements for a sublease of a residential lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed sublease.
(b) The Indian landowners must consent to a sublease of a residential lease in the same percentages and manner as a new residential lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the sublease within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the sublease and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more of the Indian landowners to consent on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to a sublease.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed sublease or other documentation of any landowner's actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the sublease to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
(d) The lessee must obtain the consent of any mortgagees.
§ 162.355
What is the approval process for a sublease of a residential lease?
(a) When we receive a sublease that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. If our approval is required, we have 30 days from receipt of the executed sublease, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the sublease.
(b) If we do not send a determination within 30 days from receipt of required documents, the sublease is deemed approved to the extent consistent with Federal law. Unless the lease provides otherwise, provisions of the sublease that are inconsistent with Federal law will be severed and unenforceable; all other provisions of the sublease will remain in force.
§ 162.356
How will BIA decide whether to approve a sublease of a residential lease?
(a) We may disapprove a sublease of a residential lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented, and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The lessee will not remain liable under the lease;
(5) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(6) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section, we may consider whether the value of any part of the leased premises not covered by the sublease would be adversely affected.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the sublease is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a sublease.

# Leasehold Mortgages
§ 162.357
May a lessee mortgage a residential lease?
(a) A lessee may mortgage a residential lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.358 and obtaining BIA approval of the leasehold mortgage under in §§ 162.359 and 162.360.
(b) Refer to § 162.349(b) for information on what happens if a sale or foreclosure under an approved mortgage of the leasehold interest occurs.
§ 162.358
What are the consent requirements for a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed leasehold mortgage.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease in the same percentages and manner as a new residential lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) States that landowner consent is not required for a leasehold mortgage and identifies what law would apply in case of foreclosure;
(2) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the leasehold mortgage within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the leasehold mortgage and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to a leasehold mortgage on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(4) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to a leasehold mortgage.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed leasehold mortgage or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the leasehold mortgage to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
§ 162.359
What is the approval process for a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease?
(a) When we receive leasehold mortgage that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. We have 20 days from receipt of the executed leasehold mortgage, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the leasehold mortgage. Our determination whether to approve the leasehold mortgage will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, the lessee may take appropriate action under § 162.363.
§ 162.360
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease?
(a) We may disapprove a leasehold mortgage of a residential lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented, and their consent is required;
(2) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(3) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section, we may consider whether:
(1) The leasehold mortgage proceeds would be used for purposes unrelated to the leased premises; and
(2) The leasehold mortgage is limited to the leasehold.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the leasehold mortgage is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a leasehold mortgage.

# Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
§ 162.361
When will an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a residential lease be effective?
(a) An amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a residential lease will be effective when approved, even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter, except:
(1) If the amendment or sublease was deemed approved under § 162.347(b) or § 162.355(b), the amendment or sublease becomes effective 45 days from the date the parties mailed or delivered the document to us for our review; and
(2) An assignment that does not require our approval under § 162.349(b) or a sublease that does not require our approval under § 162.353(b) becomes effective on the effective date specified in the assignment or sublease. If the assignment or sublease does not specify the effective date, it becomes effective upon execution by the parties.
(b) We will provide copies of approved documents to the party requesting approval, to the tribe for tribal land, and upon request, to other parties to the lease document.
§ 162.362
What happens if BIA disapproves an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage?
If we disapprove an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a residential lease, we will notify the parties immediately and advise the landowners of their right to appeal the decision under part 2 of this chapter.
§ 162.363
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease document?
(a) If a Superintendent does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage, the parties may file a written notice to compel action with the appropriate Regional Director.
(b) The Regional Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Issue a decision; or
(2) Order the Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.
(c) The parties may file a written notice to compel action with the BIA Director if:
(1) The Regional Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(3) The initial decision on the lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage is with the Regional Director, and he or she does not meet the deadline for such decision.
(d) The BIA Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Issue a decision; or
(2) Order the Regional Director or Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.
(e) If the Regional Director or Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set out in the order under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the BIA Director must issue a decision within 15 days from the expiration of the time set out in the order.
(f) The parties may file an appeal from our inaction to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals if the Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
(g) The provisions of 25 CFR 2.8 do not apply to the inaction of BIA officials with respect to a decision on a lease, amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage under this subpart.
§ 162.364
May BIA investigate compliance with a residential lease?
(a) We may enter the leased premises at any reasonable time, upon reasonable notice, and consistent with any notice requirements under applicable tribal law and applicable lease documents, to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and ensure that the lessee is in compliance with the requirements of the lease.
(b) If an Indian landowner notifies us that a specific lease violation has occurred, we will promptly initiate an appropriate investigation.
§ 162.365
May a residential lease provide for negotiated remedies if there is a violation?
(a) A residential lease of tribal land may provide either or both parties with negotiated remedies in the event of a lease violation, including, but not limited to, the power to terminate the lease. If the lease provides one or both parties with the power to terminate the lease:
(1) BIA approval of the termination is not required;
(2) The termination is effective without BIA cancellation; and
(3) The Indian landowners must notify us of the termination so that we may record it in the LTRO.
(b) A residential lease of individually owned Indian land may provide either or both parties with negotiated remedies, so long as the lease also specifies the manner in which those remedies may be exercised by or on behalf of the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 of this part. If the lease provides one or both parties with the power to terminate the lease:
(1) BIA concurrence with the termination is required to ensure that the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests have consented; and
(2) BIA will record the termination in the LTRO.
(c) The parties must notify any mortgagee of any violation that may result in termination and the termination of a residential lease.
(d) Negotiated remedies may apply in addition to, or instead of, the cancellation remedy available to us, as specified in the lease. The landowners may request our assistance in enforcing negotiated remedies.
(e) A residential lease may provide that lease violations will be addressed by the tribe, and that lease disputes will be resolved by a tribal court, any other court of competent jurisdiction, or by a tribal governing body in the absence of a tribal court, or through an alternative dispute resolution method. We may not be bound by decisions made in such forums, but we will defer to ongoing actions or proceedings, as appropriate, in deciding whether to exercise any of the remedies available to us.
162.366
What will BIA do about a violation of a residential lease?
(a) In the absence of actions or proceedings described in § 162.365(e), or if it is not appropriate for us to defer to the actions or proceedings, we will follow the procedures in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section and, as applicable, ensure consistency with 25 U.S.C. 4137.
(b) If we determine there has been a violation of the conditions of a residential lease other than a violation of payment provisions covered by paragraph (c) of this section, we will promptly send the lessee and any mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(1) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(2) The notice of violation will advise the lessee that, within 10 business days of the receipt of a notice of violation, the lessee must:
(i) Cure the violation and notify us, and the tribe for tribal land, in writing that the violation has been cured;
(ii) Dispute our determination that a violation has occurred; or
(iii) Request additional time to cure the violation.
(3) The notice of violation may order the lessee to cease operations under the lease.
(c) A lessee's failure to pay rent in the time and manner required by a residential lease is a violation of the
lease, and we will issue a notice of violation in accordance with this paragraph.
(1) We will send the lessee and any mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested:
(i) Promptly following the date on which the payment was due, if the lease requires that rental payments be made to us; or
(ii) Promptly following the date on which we receive actual notice of non-payment from the Indian landowners, if the lease provides for payment directly to the Indian landowners.
(2) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(3) The notice of violation will require the lessee to provide adequate proof of payment.
(d) The lessee will continue to be responsible for the obligations in the lease until the lease expires or is terminated or cancelled.
§ 162.367
What will BIA do if the lessee does not cure a violation of a residential lease on time?
(a) If the lessee does not cure a violation of a residential lease within the required time period, or provide adequate proof of payment as required in the notice of violation, we will consult with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, and determine whether:
(1) We should cancel the lease;
(2) The Indian landowners wish to invoke any remedies available to them under the lease;
(3) We should invoke other remedies available under the lease or applicable law, including collection on any available performance bond or, for failure to pay rent, referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection; or
(4) The lessee should be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) Following consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, we may take action to recover unpaid rent and any associated late payment charges.
(1) We do not have to cancel the lease or give any further notice to the lessee before taking action to recover unpaid rent.
(2) We may still take action to recover any unpaid rent if we cancel the lease.
(c) If we decide to cancel the lease, we will send the lessee and any mortgagee a cancellation letter by certified mail, return receipt requested within 5 business days of our decision. We will send a copy of the cancellation letter to the tribe for tribal land, and will provide Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land with actual or constructive notice of the cancellation. The cancellation letter will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) If applicable, notify the lessee of the amount of any unpaid rent or late payment charges due under the lease;
(3) Notify the lessee of the lessee's right to appeal under part 2 of this chapter;
(4) Order the lessee to vacate the property within 31 days of the date of receipt of the cancellation letter, if an appeal is not filed by that time; and
(5) Order the lessee to take any other action BIA deems necessary to protect the Indian landowners.
(d) We may invoke any other remedies available to us under the lease, including collecting on any available performance bond, and the Indian landowners may pursue any available remedies under tribal law.
(e) We will ensure that any action we take is consistent with 25 U.S.C. 4137, as applicable.
§ 162.368
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a residential lease?
(a) Late payment charges will apply as specified in the lease. The failure to pay these amounts will be treated as a lease violation.
(b) We may assess the following special fees to cover administrative costs incurred by the United States in the collection of the debt, if rent is not paid in the time and manner required, in addition to late payment charges
that must be paid to the Indian landowners under the lease:
The lessee will pay . . .
For . . .
(1) $50.00
Any dishonored check.
(2) $15.00
Processing of each notice or demand letter.
(3) 18 percent of balance due
Treasury processing following referral for collection of delinquent debt.
§ 162.369
How will payment rights relating to a residential lease be allocated?
The residential lease may allocate rights to payment for insurance proceeds, trespass damages, condemnation awards, settlement funds, and other payments between the Indian landowners and the lessee. If not specified in the lease, insurance policy, order, award, judgment, or other document, the Indian landowners will be entitled to receive these payments.
§ 162.370
When will a cancellation of a residential lease be effective?
(a) A cancellation involving a residential lease will not be effective until 31 days after the lessee receives a cancellation letter from us, or 41 days from the date we mailed the letter, whichever is earlier.
(b) The cancellation decision will not be effective if an appeal is filed unless the cancellation is made immediately effective under part 2 of this chapter. While a cancellation decision is ineffective, the lessee must continue to pay rent and comply with the other terms of the lease.
§ 162.371
What will BIA do if a lessee remains in possession after a residential lease expires or is terminated or cancelled?
If a lessee remains in possession after the expiration, termination, or cancellation of a residential lease, we may treat the unauthorized possession as a trespass under applicable law in consultation with the Indian landowners. Unless the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 have notified us in writing that they are engaged in good faith negotiations with the holdover lessee to obtain a new lease, we may take action to recover possession on behalf of the Indian landowners, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law, such as a forcible entry and detainer action.
§ 162.372
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving residential leases?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the appeal bond provisions in part 2 of this chapter will apply to appeals from lease cancellation decisions.
(b) The lessee may not appeal the appeal bond decision. The lessee may, however, request that the official to whom the appeal is made reconsider the appeal bond decision, based on extraordinary circumstances. Any reconsideration decision is final for the Department.
§ 162.373
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a residential leasing decision?
BIA will issue a decision on an appeal from a leasing decision within 30 days of receipt of all pleadings.
§ 162.374
What happens if the lessee abandons the leased premises?
If a lessee abandons the leased premises, we will treat the abandonment as a violation of the lease. The lease may specify a period of non-use after which the lease premises will be considered abandoned.

# Subpart D—Business Leases

# Source:
77 FR 72474, Dec. 5, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Business Leasing General Provisions
§ 162.401
What types of leases does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart covers both ground leases (undeveloped land) and leases of developed land (together with the permanent improvements thereon) on Indian land that are not covered in another subpart of this part, including:
(1) Leases for residential purposes that are not covered in subpart C;
(2) Leases for business purposes that are not covered in subpart E;
(3) Leases for religious, educational, recreational, cultural, or other public purposes; and
(4) Commercial or industrial leases for retail, office, manufacturing, storage, biomass, waste-to-energy, or other business purposes.
(b) Leases covered by this subpart may authorize the construction of single-purpose or mixed-use projects designed for use by any number of lessees or occupants.
§ 162.402
Is there a model business lease form?
There is no model business lease form because of the need for flexibility in negotiating and writing business leases; however, we may:
(a) Provide other guidance, such as checklists and sample lease provisions, to assist in the lease negotiation process; and
(b) Assist the Indian landowners, upon their request, in developing appropriate lease provisions or in using tribal lease forms that conform to the requirements of this part.

# Lease Requirements
§ 162.411
How long may the term of a business lease run?
(a) A business lease must provide for a definite term, state if there is an option to renew, and if so, provide for a definite term for the renewal period. The maximum term of a lease approved under 25 U.S.C. 415(a) may not exceed 50 years (consisting of an initial term not to exceed 25 years and one renewal not to exceed 25 years), unless a Federal statute provides for a longer maximum term (e.g., 25 U.S.C. 415(a) allows for a maximum term of 99 years for certain tribes), a different initial term, renewal term, or number of renewals.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the lease term, including any renewal, is reasonable. For individually owned Indian land, we will review the lease term, including any renewal, to ensure it is reasonable, given the:
(1) Purpose of the lease;
(2) Type of financing; and
(3) Level of investment.
(c) The lease may not be extended by holdover.
§ 162.412
What must the lease include if it contains an option to renew?
(a) If the lease provides for an option to renew, the lease must specify:
(1) The time and manner in which the option must be exercised or is automatically effective;
(2) That confirmation of the renewal will be submitted to us, unless the lease provides for automatic renewal;
(3) Whether Indian landowner consent to the renewal is required;
(4) That the lessee must provide notice of the renewal to the Indian landowners and any sureties and mortgagees;
(5) The additional consideration, if any, that will be due upon the exercise of the option to renew or the start of the renewal term; and
(6) Any other conditions for renewal (e.g., that the lessee not be in violation of the lease at the time of renewal).
(b) We will record any renewal of a lease in the LTRO.
§ 162.413
Are there mandatory provisions that a business lease must contain?
(a) All business leases must identify:
(1) The tract or parcel of land being leased;
(2) The purpose of the lease and authorized uses of the leased premises;
(3) The parties to the lease;
(4) The term of the lease;
(5) The ownership of permanent improvements and the responsibility for constructing, operating, maintaining, and managing permanent improvements under § 162.415;
(6) Payment requirements and late payment charges, including interest;
(7) Due diligence requirements under § 162.417 (unless the lease is for religious, educational, recreational, cultural, or other public purposes);
(8) Insurance requirements under § 162.437; and
(9) Bonding requirements under § 162.434. If a performance bond is required, the lease must state that the lessee must obtain the consent of the surety for any legal instrument that directly affects their obligations and liabilities.
(b) Where a representative executes a lease on behalf of an Indian landowner or lessee, the lease must identify the
landowner or lessee being represented and the authority under which the action is taken.
(c) All business leases must include the following provisions:
(1) The obligations of the lessee and its sureties to the Indian landowners are also enforceable by the United States, so long as the land remains in trust or restricted status;
(2) There must not be any unlawful conduct, creation of a nuisance, illegal activity, or negligent use or waste of the leased premises;
(3) The lessee must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and other legal requirements under § 162.014;
(4) If historic properties, archeological resources, human remains, or other cultural items not previously reported are encountered during the course of any activity associated with this lease, all activity in the immediate vicinity of the properties, resources, remains, or items will cease and the lessee will contact BIA and the tribe with jurisdiction over the land to determine how to proceed and appropriate disposition;
(5) BIA has the right, at any reasonable time during the term of the lease and upon reasonable notice, in accordance with § 162.464, to enter the leased premises for inspection and to ensure compliance; and
(6) BIA may, at its discretion, treat as a lease violation any failure by the lessee to cooperate with a BIA request to make appropriate records, reports, or information available for BIA inspection and duplication.
(d) Unless the lessee would be prohibited by law from doing so, the lease must also contain the following provisions:
(1) The lessee holds the United States and the Indian landowners harmless from any loss, liability, or damages resulting from the lessee's use or occupation of the leased premises; and
(2) The lessee indemnifies the United States and the Indian landowners against all liabilities or costs relating to the use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials, or the release or discharge of any hazardous material from the leased premises that occurs during the lease term, regardless of fault, with the exception that the lessee is not required to indemnify the Indian landowners for liability or cost arising from the Indian landowners' negligence or willful misconduct.
(e) We may treat any provision of a lease document that violates Federal law as a violation of the lease.
§ 162.414
May permanent improvements be made under a business lease?
The lessee may construct permanent improvements under a business lease if the business lease specifies, or provides for the development of:
(a) A plan that describes the type and location of any permanent improvements to be constructed by the lessee; and
(b) A general schedule for construction of the permanent improvements, including dates for commencement and completion of construction.
§ 162.415
How must a business lease address ownership of permanent improvements?
(a) A business lease must specify who will own any permanent improvements the lessee constructs during the lease term and may specify under what conditions, if any, permanent improvements the lessee constructs may be conveyed to the Indian landowners during the lease term. In addition, the lease must indicate whether each specific permanent improvement the lessee constructs will:
(1) Remain on the leased premises, upon the expiration, cancellation, or termination of the lease, in a condition satisfactory to the Indian landowners, and become the property of the Indian landowners;
(2) Be removed within a time period specified in the lease, at the lessee's expense, with the leased premises to be restored as closely as possible to their condition before construction of the permanent improvements; or
(3) Be disposed of by other specified means.
(b) A lease that requires the lessee to remove the permanent improvements
must also provide the Indian landowners with an option to take possession of and title to the permanent improvements if the improvements are not removed within the specified time period.
§ 162.416
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a business lease?
(a) We may take appropriate enforcement action to ensure removal of the permanent improvements and restoration of the premises at the lessee's expense:
(1) In consultation with the tribe, for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land; and
(2) Before or after expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease.
(b) We may collect and hold the performance bond or alternative form of security until removal and restoration are completed.
§ 162.417
What requirements for due diligence must a business lease include?
(a) If permanent improvements are to be constructed, the business lease must include due diligence requirements that require the lessee to complete construction of any permanent improvements within the schedule specified in the lease or general schedule of construction, and a process for changing the schedule by mutual consent of the parties. If construction does not occur, or is not expected to be completed, within the time period specified in the lease, the lessee must provide the Indian landowners and BIA with an explanation of good cause as to the nature of any delay, the anticipated date of construction of facilities, and evidence of progress toward commencement of construction.
(b) Failure of the lessee to comply with the due diligence requirements of the lease is a violation of the lease and may lead to cancellation of the lease under § 162.467.
(c) BIA may waive the requirements in this section if such waiver is in the best interest of the Indian landowners.
(d) The requirements of this section do not apply to leases for religious, educational, recreational, cultural, or other public purposes.
§ 162.418
How must a business lease describe the land?
(a) A business lease must describe the leased premises by reference to an official or certified survey, if possible. If the land cannot be so described, the lease must include one or more of the following:
(1) A legal description;
(2) A survey-grade global positioning system description; or
(3) Another description prepared by a registered land surveyor that is sufficient to identify the leased premises.
(b) If the tract is fractionated we will identify the undivided trust or restricted interests in the leased premises.
§ 162.419
May a business lease allow compatible uses?
A business lease may provide for the Indian landowners to use, or authorize others to use, the leased premises for other uses compatible with the purpose of the business lease and consistent with the terms of the business lease. Any such use or authorization by the Indian landowners will not reduce or offset the monetary compensation for the business lease.

# Monetary Compensation Requirements
§ 162.420
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a business lease of tribal land?
(a) A business lease of tribal land may allow for any payment amount negotiated by the tribe, and we will defer to the tribe and not require a valuation if the tribe submits a tribal authorization expressly stating that it:
(1) Has negotiated compensation satisfactory to the tribe;
(2) Waives valuation; and
(3) Has determined that accepting such negotiated compensation and waiving valuation is in its best interest.
(b) The tribe may request, in writing, that we determine fair market rental, in which case we will use a valuation in accordance with § 162.422. After providing the tribe with the fair market
rental, we will defer to a tribe's decision to allow for any payment amount negotiated by the tribe.
(c) If the conditions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not met, we will require that the lease provide for fair market rental based on a valuation in accordance with § 162.422.
§ 162.421
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a business lease of individually owned Indian land?
(a) A business lease of individually owned Indian land must require payment of not less than fair market rental before any adjustments, based on a fixed amount, a percentage of the projected income, or some other method, unless paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section permit a lesser amount. The lease must establish how the fixed amount, percentage, or combination will be calculated and the frequency at which the payments will be made.
(b) We may approve a lease of individually owned Indian land that provides for the payment of nominal compensation, or less than a fair market rental, if:
(1) The Indian landowners execute a written waiver of the right to receive fair market rental; and
(2) We determine it is in the Indian landowners' best interest, based on factors including, but not limited to:
(i) The lessee is a member of the immediate family, as defined in § 162.003, of an individual Indian landowner;
(ii) The lessee is a co-owner in the leased tract;
